





























FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS
AND REPORTS OF INDEPENDENT AUDITOR

MOORE INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO.  I-2,
CLEVELAND COUNTY, OKLAHOMA

JUNE 30, 2018

Audited by

SANDERS, BLEDSOE & HEWETT
CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS, LLP

BROKEN ARROW, OK





3

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-2, CLEVELAND COUNTY
JUNE 30, 2018

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Page No.

School District Officials 2

Table of Contents 3-4

Independent Auditor’s Report 5-6

Independent Auditor’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
and on Compliance and Other Matters Based on an Audit of Financial
Statements - Regulatory Basis – Performed in Accordance with
Government Auditing Standards 7-8

Independent Auditor’s Report on Compliance for Each Major
Program and on Internal Control over Compliance Required
By the Uniform Guidance 9-10

Disposition of Prior Year’s Reportable Conditions and
Material Instances of Non-Compliance 11

Schedule of Audit Results, Findings and Questioned Costs 12

Combined Financial Statements – Regulatory Basis

Combined Statement of Assets, Liabilities and Fund Balance
All Fund Types and Account Groups – Regulatory Basis 13

Combined Statement of Revenues Collected, Expenditures and
Changes in Cash Fund Balances – All Governmental Fund Types
– Regulatory Basis 14

Combined Statement of Revenues Collected, Expenditures and
Changes in Cash Fund Balances – Budget and Actual
– Budgeted Governmental Fund Types – Regulatory Basis 15-17

Notes to Combined Financial Statements - Regulatory Basis 18-38

Combining Financial Statements – Regulatory Basis

Combining Statement of Assets, Liabilities and Fund Balance
– All Special Revenue Funds – Regulatory Basis 39



4

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-2, CLEVELAND COUNTY
JUNE 30, 2018

Page No.

Combining Financial Statements – Regulatory Basis – cont’d

Combining Statement of Revenues Collected, Expenditures and
Changes in Cash Fund Balances – All Special Revenue Funds –
Regulatory Basis 40

Combining Statement of Revenues Collected, Expenditures and
Changes in Cash Fund Balances – Budget and Actual

– Budgeted Special Revenue Fund Types – Regulatory Basis 41

Combining Statement of Assets, Liabilities and Fund Equity
– All Capital Project Funds – Regulatory Basis 42

Combining Statement of Revenues Collected, Expenditures and
Changes in Cash Fund Balances – All Capital Project Funds –
Regulatory Basis 43

Combining Statement of Changes in Assets and Liabilities
–Agency Funds – Regulatory Basis 44-50

Schedule of Expenditures of Federal Awards – Regulatory Basis 51

Schedule of Statutory, Fidelity and Honesty Bonds 52

Schedule of Accountant’s Professional Liability Insurance Affidavit 53



5

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT

January 25, 2019

The Honorable Board of Education
Moore School District Number I-2
Moore, Cleveland County, Oklahoma

Report on the Financial Statements

We have audited the accompanying combined fund type and account group financial statements – regulatory basis of the
Moore School District Number I-2, Moore, Cleveland County, Oklahoma (the District), as of and for the year ended June 30,
2018, and the related notes to the financial statements, which collectively comprise the District’s basic financial statements as
listed in the table of contents.

Management’s Responsibility for the Financial Statements

Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance with financial
reporting provisions of the Oklahoma State Department of Education to meet financial reporting requirements of the State of
Oklahoma; this includes determining that the regulatory basis of accounting is an acceptable basis for the preparation of the
financial statements in the circumstances.  Management is also responsible for the design, implementation, and maintenance of
internal control relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements that are free from material
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

Auditor’s Responsibility

Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit.  We conducted our audit in
accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America, and the standards applicable to
financial audits contained in Government Auditing Standards, issued by the Comptroller General of the United States.  Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free from material misstatement.

An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements.  The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material
misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.  In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers
internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit
procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of
the entity’s internal control.  Accordingly, we express no such opinion.  An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness
of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements.

We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinions.

Basis for Adverse Opinion on U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles

As discussed in Note 1, the financial statements are prepared by the District, on the basis of the financial reporting provisions
of the Oklahoma State Department of Education, which is a basis of accounting other than accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America, to comply with the requirements of the Oklahoma State Department of Education.
The effects on the financial statements of the variances between the regulatory basis of accounting described in Note 1 and
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, although not reasonable determined, are presumed to
be material.



6

Adverse Opinion on U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles

In our opinion, because the significance of the matter discussed in the “Basis for Adverse Opinion on U.S. Generally Accepted
Accounting Principles” paragraph, the financial statements referred to in the first paragraph do not present fairly, in accordance
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, the financial position of the District as of June
30, 2018, the changes in its financial position, or, where applicable, its cash flows for the year then ended.

Unqualified Opinion on Regulatory Basis of Accounting

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to in the first paragraph present fairly, in all material respects, the assets,
liabilities and fund balance arising from regulatory basis transactions of each fund type and account group of the District, as of
June 30, 2018, and the revenues collected and expenditures paid and encumbered for the year then ended on the regulatory
basis of accounting described in Note 1.

Other Matters

Our audit was conducted for the purpose of forming opinions on the financial statements that collectively comprise the
District’s basic financial statements.  The combining statements – regulatory basis, are presented for purposes of additional
analysis and are not a required part of the basic financial statements.  The schedule of expenditures of federal awards is
presented for purposes of additional analysis as required by Title 2 U.S. Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) Part 200, Uniform
Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards, and is also not a required part of
the basic financial statements.

The combining statements – regulatory basis and the schedule of expenditures of federal awards are the responsibility of
management and were derived from and relate directly to the underlying accounting and other records used to prepare the basic
financial statements.  Such information has been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the audit of the basic financial
statements and certain additional procedures, including comparing and reconciling such information directly to the underlying
accounting and other records used to prepare the basic financial statements or to the basic financial statements themselves, and
other additional procedures in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America.  In our
opinion, the combining statements – regulatory basis and the schedule of expenditures of federal awards are fairly stated in all
material respects in relation to the basic financial statements as a whole.

Other Reporting required by Government Auditing Standards

In accordance with Government Auditing Standards, we have also issued our report dated January 25, 2019 on our
consideration of the District’s internal control over financial reporting and on our tests of its compliance with certain provisions
of laws, regulations, contracts and grant agreements and other matters.  The purpose of that report is to describe the scope of
our testing of internal control over financial reporting and compliance and the results of that testing, and not to provide an
opinion on the internal control over financial reporting or on compliance.  That report is an integral part of an audit performed
in accordance with Government Auditing Standards in considering the District’s internal control over financial reporting and
compliance.

Sanders, Bledsoe & Hewett
Certified Public Accountants, LLP

Broken Arrow, OK



7

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING
AND ON COMPLIANCE AND OTHER MATTERS BASED ON AN AUDIT OF FINANCIAL

STATEMENTS PERFORMED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
GOVERNMENT AUDITING STANDARDS

January 25, 2019

The Honorable Board of Education
Moore School District Number I-2
Moore, Cleveland County, Oklahoma

We have audited in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America and the
standards applicable to financial audits contained in Government Auditing Standards, issued by the Comptroller General of
the United States, the accompanying fund type and account group financial statements – regulatory basis within the
combined financial statements of the Moore School District Number I-2, Moore, Cleveland County, Oklahoma (District),
as of and for the year ended June 30, 2018, and the related notes to the financial statements, which collectively comprise the
District’s basic financial statements, and have issued our report thereon dated January 25, 2019, which was adverse with
respect to the presentation of the financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States because the presentation followed the regulatory basis of accounting for Oklahoma school districts and did
not conform to the presentation requirements of the Governmental Accounting Standards Board.  However, our report was
unqualified with respect to the presentation of financial statements on the regulatory basis of accounting authorized by the
Oklahoma State Board of Education.

Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

In planning and performing our audit of the financial statements, we considered the District’s internal control over financia l
reporting (internal control) to determine the audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances for the purpose of
expressing our opinions on the financial statements, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of
District’s internal control.  Accordingly, we do not express an opinion on the effectiveness of District’s internal control.

A deficiency in internal control exists when the design or operation of a control does not allow management or employees,
in the normal course of performing their assigned functions, to prevent, or detect and correct, misstatements on a timely
basis.  A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control, such that there is a
reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the entity’s financial statements will not be prevented, or detected and
corrected on a timely basis.  A significant deficiency is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control
that is less severe than a material weakness, yet important enough to merit attention by those charged with governance.

Our consideration of internal control was for the limited purpose described in the first paragraph of this section and was not
designed to identify all deficiencies in internal control that might be material weaknesses or, significant deficiencies.  Given
these limitations, during our audit we did not identify any deficiencies in internal control that we consider to be material
weaknesses.  However, material weaknesses may exist that have not been identified.



8

Compliance and Other Matters

As part of obtaining reasonable assurance about whether the District’s financial statements are free of material
misstatement, we performed tests of its compliance with certain provisions of laws, regulations, contracts, and grant
agreements, non-compliance with which could have a direct and material effect on the determination of financial statements
amounts.  However, providing an opinion on compliance with those provisions was not an objective of our audit, and
accordingly, we do not express such an opinion.  The results of our tests disclosed no instances of noncompliance or other
matters that are required to be reported under Government Auditing Standards.

Purpose of this Report

The purpose of this report is solely to describe the scope of our testing of internal control and compliance and the results of
that testing, and not to provide an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control or on compliance.  This report
is an integral part of an audit performed in accordance with Government Auditing Standards in considering the entity’s
internal control and compliance.  Accordingly, this communication is not suitable for any other purpose.

Sanders, Bledsoe & Hewett
Certified Public Accountants, LLP

Broken Arrow, OK



9

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT ON COMPLIANCE FOR EACH MAJOR PROGRAM AND ON
INTERNAL CONTROL OVER COMPLIANCE REQUIRED

BY THE UNIFORM GUIDANCE

January 25, 2019

The Honorable Board of Education
Moore School District Number I-2
Moore, Cleveland County, Oklahoma

Report on Compliance for Each Major Federal Program

We have audited Moore School District Number I-2, Moore, Cleveland County, Oklahoma (District)’s, compliance with
the types of compliance requirements described in the OMB Compliance Supplement that could have a direct and material
effect on each of the District’s major federal programs for the year ended June 30, 2018.  The District’s major federal
programs are identified in the summary of auditor’s results section of the accompanying schedule of findings and
questioned costs.

Management’s Responsibility

Management is responsible for compliance with the requirements of laws, regulations, contracts, and grants applicable to its
federal programs.

Auditor’s Responsibility

Our responsibility is to express an opinion on compliance for each of the District’s major federal programs based on our
audit of the types of compliance requirements referred to above.  We conducted our audit of compliance in accordance with
auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America; the standards applicable to financial audits contained
in Government Auditing Standards, issued by the Comptroller General of the United States, and the audit requirements of
Title 2 U.S. Code of Federal Regulations Part 200, Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit
Requirements for Federal Awards (Uniform Guidance). Those standards and Uniform Guidance require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether noncompliance with the types of compliance requirements
referred to above that could have a direct and material effect on a major federal program occurred.  An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence about the District’s compliance with those requirements and performing such other
procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.

We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion on compliance for each major federal program.
However, our audit does not provide a legal determination of the District’s compliance.

Opinion on Each Major Federal Program

In our opinion. the District, complied, in all material respects with the types of compliance requirements referred to above
that could have a direct and material effect on each of its major federal programs for the year ended June 30, 2018.



10

Report on Internal Control Over Compliance

Management of the District, is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over compliance with
the types of compliance requirements referred to above.  In planning and performing our audit of compliance, we
considered the District’s internal control over compliance with the types of requirements that could have a direct and
material effect on each major federal program to determine the auditing procedures that are appropriate in the
circumstances for the purpose of expressing an opinion on compliance for each major federal program and to test and report
on internal control over compliance in accordance with Uniform Guidance, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion
on the effectiveness of internal control over compliance.  Accordingly, we do not express an opinion on the effectiveness of
the District’s internal control over compliance.

A deficiency in internal control over compliance exists when the design or operation of a control over compliance does not
allow management or employees, in the normal course of performing their assigned functions to prevent or detect and
correct, noncompliance with a type of compliance requirement of a federal program on a timely basis.  A material weakness
in internal control over compliance is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over compliance, such
that there is a reasonable possibility that material noncompliance with a type of compliance requirement of a federal
program will not be prevented, or defected and corrected, on a timely basis.  A significant deficiency in internal control over
compliance is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over compliance with a type of compliance
requirement of a federal program that is less severe than a material weakness in internal control over compliance, yet
important enough to merit attention by those charged with governance.

Our consideration of internal control over compliance was the limited purpose described in the first paragraph of this
section and was not designed to identify all deficiencies in internal control over compliance that might be material
weaknesses or significant deficiencies.  We did not identify any deficiencies in internal control over compliance that we
consider to be material weaknesses.  However, material weaknesses may exist that have not been identified.

The purpose of this report on internal control over compliance is solely to describe the scope of our testing of internal
control over compliance and the results of that testing based on the requirements of the Uniform Guidance.  Accordingly,
this report is not suitable for any other purpose.

Sanders, Bledsoe & Hewett
Certified Public Accountants, LLP

Broken Arrow, OK



11

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-2, CLEVELAND COUNTY
DISPOSITION OF PRIOR YEAR’S SIGNIFICANT DEFICIENCIES AND

MATERIAL INSTANCES OF NON-COMPLIANCE
JUNE 30, 2018

There were no prior year significant deficiences



12

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-2, CLEVELAND COUNTY
SCHEDULE OF AUDIT RESULTS, FINDINGS AND QUESTIONED COSTS

JUNE 30, 2018

Section 1 - Summary of Auditor’s Results

1. An adverse opinion on the combined financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles and an unqualified opinion on the combined
financial statements in conformity with a regulatory basis of accounting prescribed by
the Oklahoma State Department of Education.

2. The audit disclosed no significant deficiencies in the internal controls over financial
reporting that was not considered to be material weaknesses.

3. The audit disclosed no instances of noncompliance which are material to the financial
statements.

4. The audit disclosed no significant deficiencies in the internal controls over major
programs that were considered to be material weaknesses.

5. An unqualified opinion report was issued on the compliance of major programs.

6. The audit disclosed no audit findings which are required to be reported under the
Uniform Guidance.

7. Programs determined to be major were the Title I Program (84.010), Public
Assistance Alternative Program (97.036) and, Child Nutrition Programs (10.553,
10.555, 10.559), which were clustered in determination.

8. The dollar threshold used to determine between Type A and Type B programs was
$750,000.

9. The auditee was determined to be a low-risk auditee.

Section 2 – Findings relating to the financial statements required to be reported in
accordance with GAGAS

NONE

Section 3 – Findings and questioned costs for federal awards

NONE



FIDUCIARY
FUND TYPES

GENERAL GENERAL TOTALS
SPECIAL CAPITAL DEBT AGENCY FIXED LONG-TERM (MEMORANDUM

GENERAL REVENUE PROJECTS SERVICE FUNDS ASSETS DEBT ONLY)
ASSETS

Cash & cash equivalents 33,463,004$ 12,406,179 20,031,388 33,333,908 4,302,145 103,536,624
Inventory 370,257 286,011 656,268
Capital assets 311,155,018 311,155,018
Amounts available in debt service 33,333,908 33,333,908
Amount to be provided for retirement
    of long-term debt 67,395,442 67,395,442

Total Assets 33,833,261$ 12,692,190 20,031,388 33,333,908 4,302,145 311,155,018 100,729,350 516,077,260

LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCE

Liabilities
    Warrants payable 6,387,795$ 345,606 1,013,953 7,747,354
    Funds held for school organizations 4,302,145 4,302,145
    Long-term debt:
      Copmpensated leave 1,508,072 1,508,072
      Capital leases 271,278 271,278
      Bonds payable 98,950,000 98,950,000
          Total liabilities 6,387,795 345,606 1,013,953 0 4,302,145 0 100,729,350 112,778,849

Fund Balance and Other Credits
Cash Fund Balances

Investment in General Fixed Assets 311,155,018 311,155,018
Restricted for inventories 370,257 286,011 656,268
Restricted 12,060,573 19,017,435 33,333,908 64,411,916
Unrestricted 27,075,209 27,075,209

Total Fund Balance and Other Credits 27,445,466 12,346,584 19,017,435 33,333,908 0 311,155,018 0 403,298,411

Total Liabilities, Fund Balance and Other Credits 33,833,261$ 12,692,190 20,031,388 33,333,908 4,302,145 311,155,018 100,729,350 516,077,260

The notes to the combined financial statements are an integral part of this statement

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-2, CLEVELAND COUNTY
COMBINED STATEMENT OF ASSETS, LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCE -

ALL FUND TYPES AND ACCOUNT GROUPS - REGULATORY BASIS
JUNE 30, 2018

GOVERNMENTAL FUND TYPES ACCOUNT GROUPS

13





Variance
Original/Final Favorable

 Budget Actual (Unfavorable)
Revenues Collected:
   Local sources 39,621,788$ 41,457,389 1,835,601
   Intermediate sources 5,201,045 5,929,383 728,338
   State sources 88,225,646 90,149,405 1,923,759
   Federal sources 7,513,574 8,032,285 518,711
   Interest earnings 66,208 242,399 176,191
   Non-revenue receipts 5,606,000 6,080,643 474,643
       Total revenues collected 146,234,261 151,891,504 5,657,243

Expenditures:
   Instruction 92,043,024 87,879,515 4,163,509
   Support services 53,489,132 52,243,062 1,246,070
   Operation of non-instructional services 6,003,847 5,990,506 13,341
   Facilities acquisition & construction services 6,000 (6,000)
   Other outlays:

Reimbursements 8,415 (8,415)
   Other uses 16,003,037 16,003,037
      Total expenditures 167,539,040 146,127,498 21,411,542

Excess of revenues collected
   over (under) expenditures before
   adjustments to prior year encumbrances (21,304,779) 5,764,006 27,068,785

Adjustments  to prior year encumbrances 0 6,424 6,424

Excess of revenues collected
   over (under) expenditures (21,304,779) 5,770,430 27,075,209

Cash fund balance, beginning of year 21,642,434 21,642,434 0

Change in reserve of inventories 0 32,602 32,602

Cash fund balance, end of year 337,655$ 27,445,466 27,107,811

The notes to the combined financial statements are an integral part of this statement

GENERAL FUND

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I- 2, CLEVELAND COUNTY
COMBINED STATEMENT OF REVENUES COLLECTED, EXPENDITURES AND

CHANGES IN CASH FUND BALANCES - BUDGETED GOVERNMENTAL FUND TYPES - REGULATORY BASIS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

15



Variance
Original/Final Favorable

 Budget Actual (Unfavorable)
Revenues Collected:
   Local sources 9,161,562$ 9,552,023 390,461
   State sources 87,557 90,096 2,539
   Federal sources 6,875,699 7,018,233 142,534
   Interest earnings 67,172 67,172
   Non-revenue receipts 0
       Total revenues collected 16,124,818 16,727,524 602,706

Expenditures:
   Instruction 13,000 13,000
   Support services 9,032,860 32,506 9,000,354
   Operation of non-instructional services 4,835,000 8,139,945 (3,304,945)
   Facilities acquisition & construction services 10,000 2,037,280 (2,027,280)
   Other outlays:
     Reimbursement 4,950,000 4,772,027 177,973
   Other Uses 7,597,866 7,597,866
      Total expenditures 26,438,726 14,981,758 11,456,968

Excess of revenues collected
   over (under) expenditures before
   adjustments to prior year encumbrances (10,313,908) 1,745,766 12,059,674

Adjustments  to prior year encumbrances 0 899 899

Excess of revenues collected
   over (under) expenditures (10,313,908) 1,746,665 12,060,573

Cash fund balances, beginning of year 10,512,118 10,512,118 0

Change in reserve of inventories 0 87,801 87,801

Cash fund balances, end of year 198,210$ 12,346,584 12,148,374

The notes to the combined financial statements are an integral part of this statement

SPECIAL REVENUE FUNDS

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I- 2, CLEVELAND COUNTY
COMBINED STATEMENT OF REVENUES COLLECTED, EXPENDITURES AND

CHANGES IN CASH FUND BALANCES - BUDGETED GOVERNMENTAL FUND TYPES - REGULATORY BASIS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

16



DEBT SERVICE FUND
Variance

Original/Final Favorable
Budget Actual (Unfavorable)

Revenues Collected:
   Local sources 30,937,258$ 32,315,602 1,378,344
   Interest earnings 274,070 274,070
       Total revenues collected 30,937,258 32,589,672 1,652,414

Requirements:
    Bonds 30,955,000 27,595,000 3,360,000
    Coupons 1,957,060 1,710,862 246,198
    Judgments 393 4,824 (4,431)
      Total requirements 32,912,453 29,310,686 3,601,767

Excess of revenue collected over (under)
   expenditures (1,975,195) 3,278,986 5,254,181

Cash fund balance, beginning of year 30,054,922 30,054,922 0

Cash fund balance, end of year 28,079,727$ 33,333,908 5,254,181

The notes to the combined financial statements are an integral part of this statement

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-2, CLEVELAND COUNTY
COMBINED STATEMENT OF REVENUES COLLECTED, EXPENDITURES AND

CHANGES IN CASH FUND BALANCES - BUDGETED GOVERNMENTAL FUND TYPES - REGULATORY BASIS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

17



18

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-2, CLEVELAND COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

The accompanying financial statements of the Moore Public Schools Independent District,
No. I-2 (the “District”), have been prepared in conformity with another comprehensive basis
of accounting prescribed by the Oklahoma State Department of Education as authorized by
Oklahoma Statutes. Accordingly, the accompanying financial statements are not intended to
present financial positon and results of operations in conformity with the accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The District’s accounting
policies are described in the following notes that are an integral part of the District’s financial
statements.

A. Reporting Entity

The District is a corporate body for public purposes created under Title 70 of the Oklahoma
Statutes and accordingly is a separate entity for operating and financial reporting purposes.
The District is part of the public school system of Oklahoma under the general direction and
control of the State Board of Education and is financially dependent on State of Oklahoma
support.  The general operating authority for the public school system is the Oklahoma
School Code contained in Title 70, Oklahoma Statutes.

The governing body of the District is the Board of Education composed of five elected
members.  The appointed superintendent is the executive officer of the District. The Board,
constituting an on-going entity, is the level of government , which has governance
responsibilities over all activities, related to public elementary and secondary school
education within the jurisdiction of the local independent school district. The District
receives funding from local, state and federal government sources and must comply with the
requirements of these funding source entities. However, the District is not included in any
other governmental “reporting entity” as defined  in Section 2100, Codification of
Governmental Accounting and Financial Reporting Standards, since Board members are
elected by the public and have decision making authority, the power to designate
management, the responsibility to significantly influence operations and primary
accountability for fiscal matters.

In evaluating how to define the District, for financial reporting purposes, management has
considered all potential component units. The decision to include a potential component unit
in the reporting entity was made by applying the criteria established by the Governmental
Accounting Standards Board (GASB).  The basic – but not the only – criterion for including
a potential component unit within the reporting entity is the governing body’s ability to
exercise oversight responsibility.  The most significant manifestation of this ability is
financial interdependency.  Other manifestations of the ability to exercise oversight
responsibility include, but are not limited to, the selection of governing authority, the
designation of management, the ability to significantly influence operations and
accountability for fiscal matters.  A second criterion used in evaluating potential component
units is the scope of public service.  Application of this criterion involves considering



19

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-2, CLEVELAND COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

1.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES – cont’d

A. Reporting Entity – cont’d

whether the activity benefits the District and/or its citizens, or whether the activity is
conducted within the geographic boundaries of the District and is generally available to its
patrons.  A third criterion used to evaluate potential component units for inclusion or
exclusion from the reporting entity is the existence of special financing relationships,
regardless of whether the District is able to exercise oversight responsibilities.  Based upon
the application of these criteria, there are no potential component units included in the
District’s reporting entity.

B. Measurement Focus

The District uses funds and account groups to report on its financial position and the  results
of its operations.  Fund accounting is designed to demonstrate legal compliance and to aid
financial management by segregating transactions related to certain District functions or
activities.

A fund is a separate accounting entity with a self-balancing set of accounts.  An account
group, on the other hand, is a financial reporting device designed to provide accountability
for certain assets and liabilities that are not recorded in the funds because they do not directly
affect net expendable available financial resources.

Funds are classified into three categories:  Governmental, proprietary and fiduciary.  Each
category, in turn, is divided into separate “fund types.”

Governmental Fund Types

Governmental funds are used to account for all or most of a government’s general activities,
including the collection and disbursement of earmarked monies (special revenue funds), the
acquisition or construction of general fixed assets (capital projects funds), and the servicing
of general long-term debt (debt service funds).

General Fund – The general fund is used to account for all financial transactions except those
required to be accounted for in another fund. Major revenue sources include state and local
property taxes and state funding under the Foundation and Incentive Aid Program.
Expenditures include all costs associated with the daily operations of the schools except for
programs funded for building repairs and maintenance, school construction and debt service
on bonds and other long-term debt.  The general fund includes federal and state restricted
monies that must be expended for specific programs.



20

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-2, CLEVELAND COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES – cont’d

B. Measurement Focus - cont’d

Special Revenue Funds – Special revenue funds account for revenue sources that are
restricted to expenditures for specific purposes. The special revenue funds typically include
the building, co-op  and child nutrition funds.

Building Fund – The building fund consists mainly of monies derived from property
taxes levied for the purpose of erecting, remodeling, repairing, or maintaining school
buildings and for purchasing furniture, equipment and computer software to be used
on or for school district property, for paying energy and utility costs, for purchasing
telecommunications services, for paying fire and casualty insurance premiums for
school facilities, for purchasing security systems, and for paying salaries of security
personnel.

Insurance Recovery Fund – The insurance recovery fund is established when the
District receives insurance recoveries from property damage (normally weather
related) to be used for all property repair and replacement.

Child Nutrition Fund - The child nutrition fund consists of monies derived from
federal and state financial assistance and food sales.  This fund is used to account for
the various nutrition programs provided to students. The District operates their child
nutrition program within the general fund.

Debt Service Fund – The debt service fund is the District’s sinking fund and is used to
account for the accumulation of financial resources for the payment of general long-term
(including judgments) debt principal, interest and related costs.  The primary revenue sources
are local property taxes levied specifically for debt service and interest earnings from
temporary investments.

Capital Projects Fund – The capital projects fund is the District’s bond fund and is used to
account for the proceeds of bond sales to be used exclusively for acquiring school sites,
constructing and equipping new school facilities, renovating existing facilities and acquiring
transportation equipment.



21

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-2, CLEVELAND COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES – cont’d

B. Measurement Focus – cont’d

Fiduciary Fund Types

Fiduciary funds are used to account for assets held on behalf of outside parties, including
other governments, or on behalf of other funds within the District.  The terms “non-
expendable” and “expendable” refer to whether or not the District is under an obligation to
maintain the trust principal.  Agency funds generally are used to account for assets that the
District holds on behalf of others as their agent and do not involve measurement of results of
operation.

Expendable Trust Funds – Expendable trust funds typically include the gifts and endowments
fund. The District did not maintain a gifts and endowment fund during the 2017-18 fiscal
year.

Gifts and Endowments Fund – The gifts and endowments fund receives its assets   by
way   of    philanthropic   foundations,   individuals,    or    private organizations for
which no repayment or special service to the contributor is expected. This fund is
used to promote the general welfare of the District.

Agency Fund – The agency fund is the school activities fund which is used to account for
monies collected principally through the fundraising efforts of students and District-
sponsored groups.  The administration is responsible, under the authority of the Board, for
collecting, disbursing and accounting for these activity funds.

Account Groups

An account group is not a fund and consists of a self-balancing set of accounts used only to
establish accounting control over long-term debt and fixed assets.

General Long-Term Debt Account Group – This account group is established to account for
all the long-term debt of the District, which is offset by the amount available in the debt
service fund and the amount to be provided in future years to complete retirement of the debt
principal.  It is also used to account for other liabilities (judgements and lease purchases)
which are to be paid from funds provided in future years.

General Fixed Assets Account Group – This account group is used by governments to
account for the property, plant and equipment of the school district.



22

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-2, CLEVELAND COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES – cont’d

B. Measurement Focus – cont’d

Memorandum Only - Total Column

The total column on the combined financial statements – regulatory basis is captioned
“memorandum only” to indicate that it is presented only to facilitate financial analysis.  Data
in this column does not present financial position or results of operations in conformity  with
accounting  principles generally accepted in the United States.  Neither is such data
comparable to a consolidation.  Interfund eliminations have not been made in the aggregation
of this data.

C. Basis of Accounting and Presentation

The District prepares its financial statements in a presentation format that is prescribed by the
Oklahoma State Department of Education. This format is essentially the generally accepted
form of presentation used by state and local governments prior to the effective date of GASB
Statement No. 34, Basic Financial Statements – Management’s Discussion and Analysis for
State and Local Governments with certain modifications. This format differs significantly
from that required by GASB 34.

The financial statements are essentially prepared on the basis of cash receipts and
disbursements modified as required by the regulations of the Oklahoma State Department of
Education as follows:

 Encumbrances represented  by purchase orders, contracts, and other commitments for the
expenditure of monies are recorded as expenditures when approved.

 Investments are recorded as assets when purchased.
 Inventories of school supplies are recorded as expenditures and not as inventory assets.
 Warrants payable are recorded as liabilities when issued.
 Long-term debt is recorded in the General Long-Term Debt Account Group and not in

the basic financial statements.
 Compensated absences are recorded as expenditures when paid and not recorded as a

liability.
 Fixed assets are recorded in the General Fixed Asset Account Group and not in the basic

financial statements.

This regulatory basis of accounting differs from accounting principles generally accepted in
the United States of America, which require revenues to be recognized when they become
available and measurable, or when they are earned, and expenditures or expenses are to be
recognized when the related liabilities are incurred for governmental fund types and, when
revenues are earned for proprietary fund types.



23

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-2, CLEVELAND COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

1.   SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES – cont’d

C. Basis of Accounting and Presentation – cont’d

Basis of accounting refers to when revenues and expenditures are recognized in the accounts
and reported in the financial statements. Basis of accounting relates to the timing of the
measurements made, regardless of the measurement focus applied. All governmental type
funds are accounted for using the regulatory basis of accounting.  Revenues are recognized
when they are received rather than earned and expenditures are generally recognized when
encumbered/reserved rather than at the time the related fund liability is incurred.  These
practices differ from accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.

D. Budgets and Budgetary Accounting

The District is required by state law to prepare an annual budget.  A preliminary budget must
be submitted to the Board of Education by December 31, for the fiscal year beginning the
following July 1.  If the preliminary budget requires an additional levy, the District must hold
an election on the first Tuesday in February to approve the levy. If the preliminary budget
does not require an additional levy, it becomes the legal budget.  If an election is held and the
taxes are approved, then the preliminary budget becomes the legal budget.  If voters reject the
additional taxes, the District must adopt a budget within the approved tax rate.

A budget is legally adopted by the Board of Education for all funds (with the exception of the
trust and agency funds) that includes revenues and expenditures.

Encumbrances represent commitments related to unperformed contracts for goods or
services.  Encumbrance accounting – under which purchase orders and other commitments of
resources are recorded as expenditures of the applicable fund – is utilized in all governmental
funds of the District.  Unencumbered appropriations lapse at the end of each fiscal year.
While the Debt Service Fund is a governmental fund, a comparison of budget to actual
schedule is presented in the financial statements, although the board can exercise no control
of the revenue sources for this fund (except interest earnings), and no control over its
expenditures.



24

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-2, CLEVELAND COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES – cont’d

E. Assets, Liabilities and Fund Equity

Cash and cash equivalents – The District considers all cash on hand, demand deposit
accounts, and highly liquid investments, with an original maturity of three months or less
when purchased, to be cash and cash equivalents.

Investments – The District considers investments of direct obligations of the United States
government and agencies, certificates of deposits, savings accounts or savings certificates
with maturities of greater than three months. All investments are recorded at cost, which
approximates market value.

Inventories – The value of consumable inventories at June 30, 2018, is not material to the
combined financial statements.

Fixed Assets and Property, Plant and Equipment – The District has  maintained a record of
general fixed assets, and, accordingly, a General Fixed Assets Account Group required by the
regulatory basis of accounting prescribed by the Oklahoma State Department of Education is
included in the financial statements. General fixed assets purchased are recorded as
expenditures in the various funds at the time of purchase.

Warrants Payable – Warrants are issued to meet the obligations for goods and services
provided to the District.  The District recognizes a liability for the amount of outstanding
warrants that have yet to be redeemed by the District’s treasurer.

Encumbrances – Encumbrances represent commitments related to purchase orders, contracts,
other commitments for expenditures or resources, and goods or services received by the
District for which a warrant has not been issued.  An expenditure is recorded and a liability is
recognized for outstanding encumbrances at year end in accordance with the regulatory basis
of accounting. While the regulatory basis that is used for the Debt Service Fund approximates
full accrual accounting, the accruals recorded are reported to meet regulatory requirements,
as opposed to the requirements of generally accepted accounting principles.

Compensated Absences – The District provides vacation and sick leave benefits in
accordance with Title 70 of the Oklahoma Statutes, Article 6-104, which provides for annual
sick leave and personal business days. District policy allows certified employees to
accumulate such days to a maximum number of days. Vested or accumulated vacation leave
that is expected to be liquidated with expendable  available financial resources had not been
reported as an expenditure of the governmental fund that will pay it since the financial
statements have been prepared on the regulatory basis of accounting. This practice differs
from generally accepted accounting principles.



25

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-2, CLEVELAND COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

1.   SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES – cont’d

E. Assets, Liabilities and Fund Equity – cont’d

Funds Held for School Organizations – Funds held for school organizations represent the
funds received or collected from students or other cocurricular and extracurricular activities
conducted in the District, control over which is exercised by the board of education.  These
funds are credited to the account maintained for the benefit of each particular activity within
the school activity fund.

Long-Term Debt – Long-term debt is recognized as a liability of a governmental fund when
due, or when resources have been accumulated in the debt service fund for payment early in
the following year.  For other long-term obligations, only that portion expected to be financed
from expendable available financial resources is reported as a fund liability of a
governmental fund.  The remaining portion of such obligations is reported in the general
long-term debt account group.

Fund Balance – In the fund financial statements, governmental funds report the hierarchy of
fund balances. The hierarchy is based primarily on the degree of spending constraints placed
upon use of resources for specific purposes versus availability of appropriation. An important
distinction that is made in reporting  fund balance is between amounts that are considered
nonspendable (i.e., fund balance associated with assets that are not in spendable form, such
as inventories or prepaid items, long-term portions of loans and notes receivable, or items
that are legally required to be maintained intact (such as the corpus of a permanent fund)) and
those that are spendable (such as fund balance associated with cash, investments or
receivables).

Amount in the spendable fund balance category are further classified as restricted,
committed, assigned or unassigned, as appropriate.

Restricted fund balance represents amounts that are constrained either externally by
creditors (such as debt covenants), grantors, contributors or laws or regulations of other
governments; or by law, through constitutional provisions or enabling legislation.

Committed fund balance represents amounts that are useable only for specific purposes
by formal action of the government’s highest level of decision-making authority. Such
amounts are not subject to legal enforceability (like restricted amounts), but cannot be
used for any other purpose unless the government removes or changes the limitation by
taking action similar to that which imposed the commitment.



26

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-2, CLEVELAND COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

1.   SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES – cont’d

E. Assets, Liabilities and Fund Equity – cont’d

Assigned fund balance represents amounts that are intended to be used for specific
purposes, but are neither restricted nor committed. Intent is expressed by the governing
body itself, or a subordinated high-level body or official who the governing body has
delegated the authority to assign amounts to be used for specific purposes. Assigned fund
balances include all remaining spendable amounts (except negative balances) that are
reported in governmental funds other than the general fund, that are neither restricted nor
committed, and amounts in the general fund that are intended to be used for specific
purposes in accordance with the provisions of the standard.

Unassigned fund balance is the residual classification for the general fund. It represents
the amounts that have not been assigned to other funds, and that have not been restricted,
committed, or assigned to specific  purposes within the general fund.

F. Revenue and Expenditures

Local Revenues – Revenue from local sources is the money generated from within the
boundaries of the District and available to the District for its use.  The District is authorized
by state law to levy property taxes which consist of ad valorem taxes on real and personal
property within the District.  These property taxes are distributed to the District’s general,
building and sinking funds based on the levies approved for each fund.  The County
Assessor, upon receipt of the certification of tax levies from the county excise board, extends
the tax levies on the tax rolls for submission to the county treasurer prior to October 1.  The
county treasurer must commence tax collection within fifteen days of receipt of the tax rolls.
The first half of taxes is due prior to January 1.  The second half is due prior to April 1. If the
first payment is not made in a timely manner, the entire tax becomes due and payable on
January 2.  Second half taxes become delinquent on April 1, of  the  year following   the year
of  assessment.   If   not paid by the following October 1, the property is offered for sale for
the amount of taxes due.  The owner has two years to redeem the property by paying the
taxes and penalty owed.  If at the end of two years the owner has not done so, the purchaser is
issued a deed to the property. Other local sources of revenues include tuition, fees, rentals,
disposals, commissions and reimbursements.

Intermediate Revenues - Revenue from intermediate sources is the amount of money from
funds collected by an intermediate administrative unit, or a political subdivision between the
District and the state, and distributed to Districts in amounts that differ in proportion to those
which are collected within such systems.



27

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-2, CLEVELAND COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES – cont’d

F. Revenue and Expenditures – cont’d

State Revenues – Revenues from state sources for current operations are primarily governed
by the state aid formula under the provisions of Article XVIII, Title 70, Oklahoma Statutes.
The State Board of Education administers the allocation of state aid funds to school districts
based on information accumulated from the Districts.

After review and verification of reports and supporting documentation, the State Department
of Education may adjust subsequent fiscal period allocations of money for prior year errors
disclosed by review.  Normally, such adjustments are treated as reductions from or additions
to the revenue of the year when the adjustment is made.

The District receives revenue from the state to administer certain categorical educational
programs. State Board of Education rules require that revenue earmarked for these programs
be expended only for the program for which the money is provided and require that the
money not expended as of the close of the fiscal year be carried forward into the following
year to be expended for the same categorical programs.  The State Department of Education
requires that categorical educational program revenues be accounted for in the general fund.

Federal Revenues – Federal revenues consist of revenues from the federal government in the
form of operating grants or entitlements.  An operating grant is a contribution to be used for a
specific purpose, activity or facility. A grant may be received either directly from the federal
government or indirectly as a passthrough from another government, such as the state.
Entitlement is the amount of payment to which the District is entitled pursuant to an
allocation formula contained in applicable statutes. The majority of the federal revenues
received by the District are apportioned to the general fund. The District maintains a
separate child nutrition fund and the federal revenues received for the child nutrition
programs are apportioned there.

Non-Monetary Transactions – The District receives commodities form the U.S. Department
of Agriculture. The value of these commodities has been included in the Schedule of
Expenditures of Federal Awards; however, they have not been included in the financial
statements as either revenue or expense since they are not reported under the regulatory basis
of accounting.

Interest Earnings – Represent compensation for the use of financial sources over a period of
time.

Non-Revenue Receipts – Non-revenue receipts represent receipts deposited into a fund that
are not new revenues to the District, but the return of assets.



28

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-2, CLEVELAND COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES – cont’d

F. Revenue and Expenditures – cont’d

Instruction Expenditures – Instruction expenditures include the activities dealing directly
with the interaction between teachers and students. Teaching may be provided for students in
a school classroom, in another location, such as a home or hospital, and in other learning
situations, such as those involving cocurricular activities. It may also be provided through
some other approved medium, such as television, radio, telephone and correspondence.
Included here are the activities of teacher assistants of any type (clerks, graders, teaching
machines, etc.) which assist in the instructional process. The activities of tutors, translators
and interpreters would be recorded here. Department chairpersons who teach for any portion
of time are included here.  Tuition/transfer fees paid to other LEAs would be included here.

Support Services Expenditures – Support services expenditures provide administrative,
technical (such as guidance and health) and logistical support to facilitate  and  enhance
instruction.  These  services exist as adjuncts for fulfilling the objectives of instruction,
community services and enterprise programs, rather than as entities within themselves.

Operation of Non-Instructional Services Expenditures – Activities concerned with providing
non-instructional services to students, staff or the community.

Facilities Acquisition and Construction Services Expenditures – Consists of activities
involved with the acquisition of land and buildings; remodeling buildings; the construction of
buildings and additions to buildings; initial installation or extension of service systems and
other built-in equipment; and improvements to sites.

Other Outlays Expenditures – A number of outlays of governmental funds are not properly
classified as expenditures, but still require budgetary or accounting control. These are
classified as Other Outlays. These include debt service payments (principal and interest).

Other Uses Expenditures – This includes scholarships provided by private gifts and
endowments; student aid and staff awards supported by outside revenue sources (i.e.,
foundations).  Also, expenditures for self-funded employee benefit programs administered
either by the District or a third party administrator.

Repayment Expenditures – Repayment expenditures represent checks/warrants issued to
outside agencies for refund or restricted revenue previously received for overpayment, non-
qualified expenditures and other refunds to be repaid from District funds.



29

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-2, CLEVELAND COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES – cont’d

F. Revenue and Expenditures – cont’d

Interfund Transactions – Quasi-external transactions are accounted for as revenues,
expenditures or expenses.  Transactions that constitute reimbursements to a fund or
expenditures/expenses initially made from it that are properly applicable to another fund, are
recorded as expenditures/expenses in the fund that is reimbursed.

All other interfund transactions, except quasi-external transactions and reimbursements, are
reported as transfers.  Nonrecurring or nonroutine permanent transfers of equity are reported
as residual equity transfers.  All other interfund transfers are reported as operating transfers.
There were no interfund transfers made during the 2017-18 fiscal year.

2. CASH AND INVESTMENTS

Custodial Credit Risk – Custodial credit risk is the risk that in the event of a bank failure, the
District’s deposits may not be returned to the District. The District’s cash deposits and
investments at June 30, 2018, were $103,536,624, at financial institutions, and were
completely insured or collateralized by federal depository insurance, direct obligations of the
U.S. Government, or securities held by the District or by its agent in the District’s name.

Investment Interest Rate Risk – Interest rate risk is the risk that changes in interest rates will
adversely affect the fair market value of an investment. Due to the required liquidity for those
investments, these funds have no defined maturity dates. The District does not have a formal
policy that limits investment maturities as a means of managing its exposure to fair value
losses from increasing interest rates.

Investment Credit risk – Credit risk is the risk that the issuer or other counterparty to an
investment will not fulfill its obligations. The District does not have a formal policy limiting
its investment choices, other than the limitation of state law as follows:

 Direct obligations of the U.S. Government, its agencies and instrument to which the full
faith and credit of the U.S. Government is pledged, or obligations to the payment of
which the full faith and credit of the State is pledged.

 Certificates of deposit or savings accounts that are either insured or secured with
acceptable collateral with in-state financial institutions, and fully insured certificates of
deposit or savings accounts in out-of-state financial institutions.

 With certain limitation, negotiable certificates of deposit, prime bankers acceptances,
prime commercial paper and repurchase agreements with certain limitations.



30

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-2, CLEVELAND COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

2.   CASH AND INVESTMENTS – cont’d

 County, municipal or school district tax supported debt obligations, bond or revenue
anticipation notes, money judgments, or bond or revenue anticipation  notes of public
trusts whose beneficiary is a county, municipality or school district.

 Notes or bonds secured by mortgage or trust deed insured by the Federal Housing
Administrator and debentures issued by the Federal Housing Administrator, and in
obligations of the National Mortgage Association.

 Money market funds regulated by the SEC and in which investments consist of the
investments mentioned in the previous bullet items.

Concentration of Investment Credit Risk – The District places no limit on the amount it may
invest in any one issuer.

3. INTERFUND RECEIVABLES AND PAYABLES

There were no interfund receivables or payables at June 30, 2018.

4. GENERAL LONG-TERM DEBT

State statutes prohibit the District from becoming indebted in an amount exceeding the
revenue to be received for any fiscal year without approval by the District’s voters.  Bond
issues have been approved by the voters  and  issued by the District for various capital
improvements.  These bonds are required to be fully paid serially within 25 years of the date
of issue.

General long-term debt of the District consists of general obligation bonds. Debt service
requirements for bonds are paid solely from the fund balance and the future revenues of the
debt service fund.



31

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-2, CLEVELAND COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

4. GENERAL LONG-TERM DEBT – cont’d

The following is a summary of the long-term debt transactions of the District for the year
ended June 30, 2018:

Lease/Purchase Bonds
Agreements Payable Total

Balance, July 1, 2017 673,464$ 91,965,000 92,638,464
Additions 34,580,000 34,580,000
Retirements (402,186) (27,595,000) (27,997,186)

Balance, June 30, 2018 271,278$ 98,950,000 99,221,278

A brief description of the outstanding long-term debt at June 30, 2018, is set forth below:

Amount
Outstanding

General Obligation Bonds:
Combined Purpose Bonds, Series 2018, original issue

$23,300,000, interest rates of 2.50% to 3.00%, due in
initial installment of $5,825,000, annual installments
of $5,825,000, final payment due 3-1-22 23,300,000

Combined Purpose Bonds, Series 2018, original issue
$28,040,000, interest rates of 2.00% to 3.00%, due in
initial installment of $7,010,000, annual installments
of $7,010,000, final payment due 3-1-23 28,040,000

Combined Purpose Bonds, Series 2014, original issue
$26,540,000, interest rates of 1.000% to 1.250%, due in
initial installment of $6,635,000, annual installments
of $6,635,000, final payment due 3-1-19 6,635,000

Building Bonds, Series 2018, original issue
$6,540,000, interest rate of 2.45%  due in
one installment of $6,540,000, on 3-1-20 6.540,000



32

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-2, CLEVELAND COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

4.   GENERAL LONG-TERM DEBT – cont’d

Combined Purpose Bonds, Series 2016, original issue
$16,400,000, interest rates of 1.50% to 2.00%, due in
initial installment of $4,100,000, annual installments
of $4,100,000, final payment due 3-1-21 12,300,000

Combined Purpose Bonds, Series 2015, original issue
$30,960,000, interest rate of 1.50% to 2.00% due in
initial installment of $7,740,000 annual installments
of $7,740,000, final payment due 3-1-20 15,480,000

Building Bonds, Series 2018, original issue
$6,655,000, interest rate of 2.00%  due in
one installment of $6,655,000, on 3-1-19 6,655,000

Capital Lease Purchase Agreements

Lease purchase of Data Storage equipment, dated May 14, 2014,
totaling $692,690, due in annual principal and interest
payments of $138,592. 68,332

Lease purchase of computer equipment, dated April 3, 2014,
totaling $999,956, due in annual principal and interest
payments of $205,990. 202,946

Total $ 99,221,278

The annual debt service requirements for outstanding bond issues and capital leases,
including the payment of principal and interest, are as follows:



33

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-2, CLEVELAND COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

4.   GENERAL LONG-TERM DEBT – cont’d

Year
Ending Principal Interest Total

2019 31,226,278 2,175,280 33,401,558
2020 31,215,000 1,729,892 32,944,892
2021 16,935,000 1,047,837 17,982,837
2022 12,835,000 595,350 13,430,350
2023 7,010,000 210,300 7,220,300

Total 99,221,278$ 5,758,659 104,979,937

Interest paid on general long-term debt during the 2017-18 fiscal year totaled $1,413,470.

5.   EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEM

Description of Plan
The District participates in the state-administered Oklahoma Teachers’ Retirement System,
which is a cost sharing, multiple-employer defined benefit public employee retirement
system  (PERS), which  is administered  by the Board  of  Trustees  of  the Oklahoma
Teachers’ Retirement System (the “System”).  The System provides retirement and disability
benefits, annual cost-of-living adjustments, and death benefits to plan members  and
beneficiaries.   Title  70  Section  17  of the Oklahoma Statutes establishes benefit provisions
and may be amended only through legislative action.  The Oklahoma Teachers’ Retirement
System issues a publicly available financial report that includes financial statements and
required supplementary information for the System.  That report may be obtained by writing
to the Oklahoma Teachers’ Retirement System, P.O. Box 53624, Oklahoma City, OK 73152,
or by calling 405-521-2387.

Basis of Accounting
The System’s financial statements are prepared using the cash basis of accounting, except for
accruals of interest income.  Plan member contributions are recognized in the period in which
the contributions are made. Benefits and refunds are recognized when paid.  The pension
benefit obligation is a standardized disclosure measure of the present value of pension
benefits.  This pension valuation method reflects the present value of estimated pension
benefits that will be paid in future years as a result of  employee  services  performed  to  date
and is adjusted for the effect of projected salary increases.  There are no actuarial valuations
performed on individual school districts.  The System has an under-funded pension benefit
obligation as determined as part of the latest actuarial valuation.



34

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-2, CLEVELAND COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

5. EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEM – cont’d

Funding Policy

The District, the State of Oklahoma, and the participating employee make contributions.  The
contribution rates for the District and its employees are established by and may be amended
by Oklahoma Statutes.  The rates are not actuarially determined.  The rates are applied to the
employee’s earnings plus employer-paid fringe benefits.  The required contribution for the
participating members is 7.0% of compensation.  Contributions received by the System from
the State of Oklahoma are used to offset required employer contributions by the local school
district.  For the 2017-18 fiscal year, the District contributed 9.5% and the State of Oklahoma
contributed the remaining amount during the year.  The District is allowed by Oklahoma
Teachers’ Retirement System to make the required contributions on behalf of the
participating members.  In addition, if a member’s salary is paid in part by federal or private
funds, the contribution on that portion of the salary paid by those funds must be matched by
the District at 7.80%.

Annual Pension Cost

The District’s total contributions for 2018, 2017 and 2016 are $14,530,388, $14,506,978,
and $15,197,323, respectively. Ten-year historical trend information is presented in the
Teacher’s Retirement System of Oklahoma Annual Report for the year ended June 30, 2018.
This information is useful in assessing the pension plan’s accumulation of sufficient assets to
pay pension benefits as they become due.  Please visit www.ok.gov/TRS for all plan
information.

GASB Statement 68 became effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2014, and
significantly changes pension accounting and financial reporting for governmental employers
who participate in a pension plan, such as the System, and who prepare published financial
statements on an accrual basis using Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Since the
District does not prepare and present their financial statements on an accrual basis, the net
pension amount is not required to be presented on the audited financial statements. The
amount of calculated pension liability for the District at June 30, 2017 (the latest information
available) was $145,926,219.

6.  RISK MANAGEMANT

The District is exposed to various risks of loss related to torts; theft of, damage to and
destruction of assets; errors and omissions; injuries to employees; or acts of God.  The
District purchases commercial insurance to cover these risks, including general and auto
liability, property damage, and public officials liability. Settled claims resulting from risks
have not exceeded the commercial insurance coverage in any of the past three fiscal years.



35

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-2, CLEVELAND COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

6. RISK MANAGEMANT – cont’d

The District is a member of the Oklahoma Public Schools Unemployment Compensation
Program.  In this program the District is required to contribute 1.6% of its taxable payroll for
unemployment insurance. The funds for each District are kept separate and Districts can
contribute more than 1.6% of their payroll if they elect to.  The money contributed by each
District earns interest and is fully insured.  If the District has claims in excess of the amount
in its account, it will be liable for the excess.

The School participates in a risk pool for Workers’ Compensation coverage in which there is
a transfer or pooling of risks among the participants of that pool.  In accordance with GASB
No. 10, the School reports the required contribution to the pool, net of refunds, as insurance
expense.   The risk pool is the Oklahoma School Assurance Group (OSAG), an organization
formed for the purpose of providing workers’ compensation coverage to participating schools
in the State of Oklahoma. In that capacity, OSAG is responsible for providing loss control
services and certain fiscal activities, including obtaining contract arrangements for the
underwriting, excess insurance agreements, claims processing, and legal defense for any and
all claims submitted to it during the plan year.  As a member of OSAG, the District is
required to pay fees set by OSAG according to an established payment schedule.  A portion
of the fees paid by the District goes into a loss fund for the District.  The fee for the loss fund
is calculated by projecting losses based on the school’s losses for the last five years.  OSAG
provides coverage in excess of the Loss Fund so the District’s liability for claim loss is
limited to the balance of the loss fund.  If the District does not use its loss fund in three years,
it is returned to the District with no interest.

7. CONTINGENCIES

Federal Grants

Amounts received or receivable from grant agencies are subject to audit and adjustment by
grantor agencies.  Any disallowed claims, including amounts already collected, may
constitute a liability of the applicable funds.  The amounts, if any, of expenditures which may
be disallowed by the grantor cannot be determined at this time, although the District expects
such amounts, if any, to be immaterial.

Schedule of Expenditure of Federal Awards

The schedule shows the federal awards received and expended by the District during the
2017-18 fiscal year. The new Uniform Guidance established uniform audit requirements for
nonfederal entities which expended more than $750,000 in federal awards.



36

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-2, CLEVELAND COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

7. CONTINGENCIES – cont’d

Litigation

The District is defendant in various lawsuits. Although the outcome of these lawsuits is not
presently determinable, the District believes the resolution of these matters will not have a
material adverse effect on the financial condition of the District. Should a judgment be
awarded against the District, it would be levied through the District’s sinking fund over a
three year period pursuant to state law.

Subsequent Events

Management has evaluated subsequent events through January 22, 2019, which is the date
the financial statements were available to be issued, and have determined that no additional
information needs to be added to the financial statements.

8.  CAPITAL ASSETS

Capital asset activity for the year ended June 30, 2018, was as follows:

Beginning Ending
Balances Additions Transfers Deletions Balances

Capital Assets:
Land 7,673,926$ 7,673,926
Constructin in progress 37,632,830 36,428,477 (37,632,830) 36,428,477
Building & improvements 401,460,892 37,632,830 439,093,722
Equipment & vehicles 29,577,848 2,822,241 306,523 32,093,566

Total Capital Assets 476,345,496$ 39,250,718 0 306,523 515,289,691

Accumulated depreciation (183,134,134) (21,307,062) (306,523) (204,134,673)

Net Fixed Assets 293,211,362$ 17,943,656 0 0 311,155,018

Under the District’s capitalization policy assets with a value of less than $2,500, are not
reported in the financial statements nor in depreciation calculations. The
transactions/accounting of the general fixed account group have no effect on the individual
funds’ basic financial statements prepared on the regulatory basis of accounting



37

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-2, CLEVELAND COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

9.  LEASE REVENUE BONDS

In February, 2013 patrons of the Moore Public School District No. I-2 an Independent school
district of Cleveland County in the State of Oklahoma voted and approved
$126,460,000 in bonds. In September 2013, the Cleveland County Educational Facilities
Authority issued $65,625,000 of Educational Facilities Lease Revenue Bonds Series 2013, to
provide funds for the constructing, equipping, repairing and remodeling of school buildings,
acquiring furniture, fixtures and equipment and acquiring and improving school sites for the
benefit of Moore Public Schools.  The Authority intends and expects to own the projects at
all times during the term of the bonds.  During such term, the Authority intends and expects
to lease the projects to the District for its exclusive use.  The bonds are to be retired by annual
acquisition payments beginning June 1, 2014 and ending June 1, 2018. The District will also
make semi-annual rental payments to the authority of $1,500. Moore Public Schools will gain
ownership to the capital improvements incrementally as each bond payment is made.
Acquisition payments are as follows:

Year Payment

2014 15,660,000$
2015 20,920,000
2016 6,360,000
2017 13,260,000
2018 18,000,000

Total 74,200,000$
Interest (8,575,000)
Net 65,625,000$



38

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-2, CLEVELAND COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

9.  LEASE REVENUE BONDS – cont’d

In October 2015 patrons of the Moore Public School District   No. I-2 an Independent school
district of Cleveland County in the State of Oklahoma voted and approved
$209,000,000 in bonds. In March 2018, the Cleveland County Educational Facilities
Authority issued $103,045,000 of Educational Facilities Lease Revenue Bonds Series 2018,
The purpose of the bond issue is to provide funds for the purpose of improving or acquiring
school sites, constructing storm shelters, repairing, remodeling, and equipping school
buildings, acquiring school furniture, fixtures and equipment. The Authority intends and
expects to own the projects at all times during the term of the bonds. During such term, the
Authority intends and expects to lease the projects to the District for exclusive use. The
bonds are to be retired by annual acquisition payments beginning June 1, 2018 and ending
June 1, 2023. The District will also make semi-annual rental payments to the authority of
$1,500. Moore Public Schools will gain ownership to the capital improvements incrementally
as each bond payment is made.  Acquisition payments are as follows:

Year Payments

2017 6,610,000$
2018 6,495,000
2019 38,740,000
2020 6,660,000
2021 12,280,000
2022 16,900,000
2023 38,865,000

Total 126,550,000$
Interest (23,505,000)
Net 103,045,000$



CHILD
BUILDING NUTRITION

FUND FUND TOTAL
ASSETS

Cash & cash equivalents 8,398,935$ 4,007,244 12,406,179
Inventory 286,011 286,011

Total Assets 8,398,935$ 4,293,255 12,692,190

LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCE

Liabilities:
   Warrants payable 318,855$ 26,751 345,606
     Total Liabilities 318,855 26,751 345,606

Fund Equity:
   Cash fund balances 8,080,080 3,980,493 12,060,573
   Reserve for inventories 286,011 286,011

Total Fund Balance 8,080,080 4,266,504 12,346,584

Total Liabilities and Fund Balance 8,398,935$ 4,293,255 12,692,190

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-2, CLEVELAND COUNTY
COMBINING STATEMENT OF ASSETS, LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCE -

ALL SPECIAL REVENUE FUNDS - REGULATORY BASIS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

39



CHILD
BUILDING NUTRITION

FUND FUND TOTAL
Revenues Collected:
   Local sources 5,869,101$ 3,682,922 9,552,023
   State sources 90,096 90,096
   Federal sources 1,615,626 5,402,607 7,018,233
   Interest earnings 45,807 21,365 67,172
   Non-revenue 0
       Total revenues collected 7,530,534 9,196,990 16,727,524

Expenditures:
   Support services 32,506 32,506
   Operation of non-instructional services 3,786,116 4,353,829 8,139,945
   Facilities acquisition construction services 2,037,280 2,037,280
   Other outlays:
      Reimbursement 4,772,027 4,772,027
       Total expenditures 5,855,902 9,125,856 14,981,758

Excess of revenues collected over (under)
   expenditures before adjustments to
   prior year encumbrances 1,674,632 71,134 1,745,766

Adjustments to prior year encumbrances 823 76 899

Excess of revenues collected
   over (under) expenditures 1,675,455 71,210 1,746,665

Cash fund balances, beginning of year 6,404,625 4,107,493 10,512,118

Change in reserve of inventories 0 87,801 87,801

Cash fund balances, end of year 8,080,080$ 4,266,504 12,346,584

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-2, CLEVELAND COUNTY
COMBINING STATEMENT OF REVENUES COLLECTED, EXPENDITURES AND CHANGES

IN CASH FUND BALANCES - ALL SPECIAL REVENUE FUNDS - REGULATORY BASIS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

40



ORIGINAL FINAL ORIGINAL FINAL
BUDGET BUDGET ACTUAL BUDGET BUDGET ACTUAL

Revenues Collected:
   Local sources 5,644,825$ 5,644,825 5,869,101 3,516,737$ 3,516,737 3,682,922
   State sources 87,557 87,557 90,096
   Federal sources 1,900,000 1,900,000 1,615,626 4,975,699 4,975,699 5,402,607
   Interest earnings 45,807 21,365
   Non-revenue receipts
       Total revenues collected 7,544,825 7,544,825 7,530,534 8,579,993 8,579,993 9,196,990

Expenditures:
    Instruction 13,000 13,000 32,506
   Support services 9,032,860 9,032,860 3,786,116
   Operation of non-instructional services 4,835,000 4,835,000 4,353,829
   Facilities acquisition & construction services 10,000 10,000 2,037,280
   Other outlays:
      Reimbursement 4,950,000 4,950,000 4,772,027
   Other  Uses 4,893,590 4,893,590 2,704,276 2,704,276
        Total expenditures 13,949,450 13,949,450 5,855,902 12,489,276 12,489,276 9,125,856

Excess of revenues collected over
   (under) expenditures before adjustments
    to prior year encumbrances (6,404,625) (6,404,625) 1,674,632 (3,909,283) (3,909,283) 71,134

Adjustment to prior year encumbrances 0 0 823 0 0 76

Excess of revenues collected over
   (under) expenditures (6,404,625) (6,404,625) 1,675,455 (3,909,283) (3,909,283) 71,210

Cash fund balances, beginning of year 6,404,625 6,404,625 6,404,625 4,107,493 4,107,493 4,107,493

Change in reserve of inventories 0 0 0 0 0 87,801

Cash fund balances, end of year $              0 0 8,080,080 198,210$ 198,210 4,266,504

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-2, CLEVELAND COUNTY
COMBINING STATEMENT OF REVENUES COLLECTED, EXPENDITURES AND CHANGES

IN CASH FUND BALANCES - BUDGET AND ACTUAL COMPARISON
ALL BUDGETED SPECIAL REVENUE FUNDS - REGULATORY BASIS

BUILDING FUND CHILD NUTRITION FUND

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

41



#31 #32 #33 #34 #36
BUILDING BOND BUILDING BOND BUILDING BOND BUILDING BOND BUILDING BOND

FUND FUND FUND FUND FUND TOTAL
ASSETS

Cash & cash equivalents 435,063$ 1,473,258 1,801,198 5,962,392 10,359,477 20,031,388

Total assets 435,063$ 1,473,258 1,801,198 5,962,392 10,359,477 20,031,388

LIABILITIES AND FUND EQUITY

Liabilities:
   Warrants outstanding 40$ 407,562 549,229 57,122 1,013,953

Total Liabilities 40 407,562 0 549,229 57,122 1,013,953

Fund Equity:
   Cash fund balances 435,023 1,065,696 1,801,198 5,413,163 10,302,355 19,017,435

Total Liabilities and Fund Equity 435,063$ 1,473,258 1,801,198 5,962,392 10,359,477 20,031,388

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-2, CLEVELAND COUNTY
COMBINING STATEMENT OF ASSETS, LIABILITIES AND FUND EQUITY -

ALL CAPITAL PROJECT FUNDS - REGULATORY BASIS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

42



#31 #32 #33 #34 #36 #37 #39
BOND BOND BOND BOND BOND BOND BOND
FUND FUND FUND FUND FUND FUND FUND TOTAL

Revenues Collected:
Local sources 1,359$ 6,195 6,019 72,263 864,130 19,191 969,157

       Total revenues collected 1,359 6,195 6,019 72,263 864,130 19,191 0 969,157

Expenditures:
Instruction 78,477 792,504 30,184 2,782,122 3,258 3,686,545
Support services 168,567 1,755,379 96,206 2,187,322 134,813 51 4,342,338
Non-instructional services 50,553 148,316 198,869
Facilities acquisition & construction services 3,177 1,852,267 3,662,845 540,475 18,463,704 6,495,000 31,017,468
Reimbursements 64,191 64,191

       Total expenditures 250,221 4,450,703 3,789,235 5,658,235 18,601,775 6,559,191 51 39,309,411

Excess of revenues collected over (under)
   expenditures before other financing
   sources (uses) (248,862) (4,444,508) (3,783,216) (5,585,972) (17,737,645) (6,540,000) (51) (38,340,254)

Other financing sources and uses
Bond proceeds 28,040,000 6,540,000 34,580,000
Transfers In / (Out) 94,978 (94,978) 0

Totals 0 94,978 0 0 28,040,000 6,540,000 (94,978) 34,580,000

Excess of revenues collected and other
   financing sources over (under) expenditures (248,862) (4,349,530) (3,783,216) (5,585,972) 10,302,355 0 (95,029) (3,760,254)

Cash fund balances, beginning of year 683,885 5,415,226 5,584,414 10,999,135 0 0 95,029 22,777,689

Cash fund balances, end of year 435,023$ 1,065,696 1,801,198 5,413,163 10,302,355 0 0 19,017,435

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-2, CLEVELAND COUNTY
COMBINING STATEMENT OF REVENUES COLLECTED, EXPENDITURES AND CHANGES

IN CASH FUND BALANCES - ALL CAPITAL PROJECT FUNDS - REGULATORY BASIS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

43



ASSETS

CASH 4,161,805$ 6,558,624 6,418,284 4,302,145

LIABILITIES

809 9 NIGHT SCHOOL/H.S. COMPLET  CASH 19,273$ 1,789 3,758 17,304
836 9 SUMMER SCH INTERNET BASED PROG CASH 30,890 23,370 30,855 23,405
922 9 INTERNET BASED PROGRAM CASH 36,639 24,126 36,504 24,261
941 9 NIGHTSCHOOL COKE ACCOUNT   CASH 2,047 5,797 3,693 4,151
997 9 NIGHT SCHOOL TEACHER COKE CASH 219 100 253 66
821 51 TIPS PROGRAM    CASH 236 - 236 -
824 51 ATHLETICS                  CASH 285,850 564,738 546,769 303,820
825 51 ATHLETIC FUND RAISER       CASH 309,871 242,013 349,966 201,918
826 51 LETTER "M"                 CASH 55,562 72,028 63,892 63,697
829 51 SEARCH                     CASH 9,129 15,498 12,987 11,640
832 51 SUMMER RECREATION PROGRAM  CASH 51,753 115,208 89,410 77,551
835 51 ELEMENTARY GUIDANCE        CASH 7,070 - 209 6,861
838 51 CITIZENSHIP CHALLENGE      CASH 24 - 24 -
840 51 KEN HOGAN MEMORIAL FUND    CASH 47 - 47 -
876 51 SUMMER ALGEBRA CAMP  CASH ACCT 388 813 - 1,202
887 51 ELEMENTARY SUMMER SCHOOL   CASH 9,800 6,300 9,750 6,350
890 51 SCIENCE ENRICHMENT         CASH 2,806 - 51 2,755
910 51 ASC NURSING SERVICES       CASH 3,163 2,747 3,801 2,109
976 51 SECONDARY SUMMER SCHOOL    CASH 41,374 56,373 54,706 43,040
977 51 SUMMER BAND                CASH (12) 3,454 - 3,442
978 51 SUMMER DRIVERS EDUCATION   CASH 254 (54) - 200
979 51 SUMMER SPEECH              CASH 314 - 314 -
984 51 JR HIGH SUMMER SCHOOL      CASH 7,286 11,422 10,517 8,190
998 51 FINE ARTS           CASH 172 7 - 179
975 009 VISTA STUDENT ID CASH ACCT. 5,851 1,963 - 7,814
839 03 INSTRUCTIONAL/COCURR SUPPLIES 74 - 74 -
801 051 ELEMENTARY EDUCATION CASH ACCT. 31,797 45,205 26,111 50,891
802 051 CLEARING                   CASH 36 56,014 56,051 -
803 051 ELEMENTARY MUSICAL FESTIV  CASH 2,533 6,990 551 8,972
805 051 SCHOOL ACTIVITY OPERATIONS CASH ACCT. 62,005 98,072 123,823 36,254
807 051 MISCELLANEOUS              CASH 10,960 82,217 45,374 47,803
813 051 TEXTBOOKS                  CASH 2,067 4,812 163 6,717
814 051 ASC SECURITY CASH ACCT. 1,946 2,682 731 3,896
816 051 MAINTENANCE COKE ACCOUNT   CASH 169 952 1,056 64
817 051 TRANSPORTATION COKE ACCT   CASH 554 294 248 600
828 051 MOORE APPLAUSE CASH ACCT. (72) 350 - 278
830 051 SCIENCE FAIR               CASH 1,734 4,749 4,404 2,079
831 051 PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT   CASH 377 278 - 655
833 051 ELEMENTARY TRA                      CASH 5 - 5 -
834 051 KINDERGARTEN SUMMER ACADEMY CASH 279 - 279 -
864 051 PLAZA TOWERS TORNADO FUND CASH ACCT. 423 - - 423
865 051 BRIARWOOD TORNADO FUND CASH ACCT. 279 - - 279
867 051 HATS FOR HOUSTON     CASH ACCT. - 47,027 22,398 24,629
875 051 ATHLETICS TORNADO FUND CASH ACCT. 38 - 38 -
877 051 MUSIC TORNADO FUND  CASH ACCT 7 - 7 -
878 051 MEDIA TORNADO FUND CASH ACCT. 972 - - 972
892 051 SOUTHGATE TORNADO FUND 1 - 1 -
916 051 INDIAN EDUCATION CASH ACCT. 1,902 9,449 4,607 6,744
919 051 SUMMER READ MOORE BOOK BUS    CASH - 21,301 1,462 19,839
815 090 TECHNOLOGY COKE ACCT           CASH 1 - - 1
818 090 CENTER FOR TECHNOLOGY CASH ACCT. 81 5,040 4,609 512
808 097 CHILD NUTRITION COKE ACCT  CASH 184 - 92 92
839 103 CENTRAL ELEMENTARY         CASH 39,024 36,179 32,642 42,561
843 103 CENTRAL ELEM. COKE ACCOUNT CASH 876 259 664 471
859 103 CENTRAL ELEM. BEFORE/ AFTER SCHOOL CASH 37,435 42,221 12,381 67,274
839 107 FAIRVIEW                   CASH 41,508 48,191 61,811 27,888
843 107 FAIRVIEW COKE ACCOUNT      CASH 894 1,267 1,766 395
859 107 FAIRVIEW AFTER SCHOOL PROGRAM CASH 40,063 34,108 25,958 48,213
801 108 STUDENT RELATED/KITCHEN SUPPLIES 1,143 - 1,143 -
807 108 STUDENT RELATED/DUES & FEES 171 - 171 -
839 108 KELLEY                     CASH 23,592 36,119 37,463 22,249
843 108 KELLEY COKE ACCOUNT        CASH 1,152 745 917 980
859 108 KELLEY DAY CARE      CASH ACCT. 1,640 25,025 18,416 8,249
839 109 NORTHMOOR                  CASH 22,618 27,657 31,989 18,286
843 109 NORTHMOOR COKE ACCOUNT     CASH 62 92 110 44
859 109 NORTHMOOR BEFORE/AFTER CARE CASH ACCT. 11,033 25,332 16,616 19,750
801 110 INSTRUCTIONAL/AUDIO VIDEO SUPPLIES 978 - 978 -
839 110 SOUTHGATE                  CASH 29,618 14,107 14,355 29,370
843 110 SOUTHGATE COKE ACCOUNT     CASH 171 84 124 132
859 110 SOUTHGATE BEFORE/AFTER CARE CASH ACCT. 8,535 15,804 13,345 10,993
801 112 CARE & UPKEEP GROUNDS/MAINTENANCE SUPPLY 600 - 600 -

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-2, CLEVELAND COUNTY
COMBINING STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN ASSETS AND LIABILITIES -

AGENCY FUNDS - REGULATORY BASIS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

44



ASSETS

CASH 4,161,805$ 6,558,624 6,418,284 4,302,145

LIABILITIES

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-2, CLEVELAND COUNTY
COMBINING STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN ASSETS AND LIABILITIES -

AGENCY FUNDS - REGULATORY BASIS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

802 112 INSTRUCTIONAL/TECHNOLGY SOFTWARE & EQ 3,055 - 3,055 -
839 112 PLAZA TOWERS               CASH 20,351 44,262 50,856 13,757
843 112 PLAZA TOWERS COKE ACCOUNT  CASH 33 - - 33
859 112 PLAZA TOWERS BEFORE/AFTER SCHOOL CASH 56,038 42,230 33,076 65,193
864 112 INSTRUCTIONAL/COCURR SUPPLIES 12,120 - 12,120 -
803 113 INSTRUCT STAFF TRAINING/REGISTRATION FEE 795 - 795 -
839 113 SKY RANCH                  CASH 50,077 43,000 48,755 44,322
843 113 SKY RANCH COKE ACCOUNT     CASH 739 226 649 316
859 113 SKY RANCH BEFORE/AFTER SCH PROG     CASH 27,210 40,244 35,873 31,581
802 117 INSTRUCTIONAL/TECHNOLOGY SOFTWARE & EQ 3,880 - 3,880 -
839 117 KINGSGATE                  CASH 29,228 32,027 43,658 17,598
843 117 KINGSGATE COKE ACCOUNT     CASH 391 578 578 391
859 117 KINGSGATE BEFORE/AFTER CASH ACCT. 5,399 26,987 18,513 13,874
839 120 HOUCHIN                    CASH 19,000 19,262 26,823 11,440
843 120 HOUCHIN COKE ACCOUNT       CASH 377 106 252 231
859 120 HOUCHIN BEFORE/AFTER SCHOOL PROGRAM CASH 3,673 12,832 15,598 907
801 125 INSTRUCTIONAL/COCURR SUPPLIES 261 - 261 -
803 125 INTRUCTIONAL ELEM MUSIC/COCURRICULAR SUP 734 - 734 -
839 125 WINDING CREEK              CASH 79,278 82,646 68,199 93,725
843 125 WINDING CREEK COKE ACCOUNT CASH 293 128 167 253
859 125 WINDING CREEK BEFORE/AFTER SCH PROG CASH 2,625 66,445 66,185 2,885
839 130 SANTA FE                   CASH 27,946 47,553 38,884 36,616
843 130 SANTA FE COKE ACCOUNT      CASH 217 173 165 224
859 130 SANTA FE BEFORE/AFTER CARE CASH ACCT. 9,368 25,163 15,988 18,543
803 135 INSTRUCT STAFF TRAINING/REGISTRATION FEE 1,075 - 1,075 -
839 135 APPLE CREEK                CASH 38,486 74,905 72,312 41,079
843 135 APPLE CREEK COKE ACCOUNT   CASH 20 32 50 2
859 135 APPLE CREEK CAMP COUGAR       CASH ACCT 36,694 21,906 33,409 25,191
802 140 INSTRUCTIONAL/TECHNOLOGY SOFTWARE & EQ 1,405 - 1,405 -
807 140 STUDENT RELATED/DUES & FEES 317 - 317 -
839 140 RED OAK                    CASH 108,016 73,605 103,508 78,113
843 140 RED OAK COKE ACCOUNT       CASH 212 42 165 89
859 140 RED OAK BEFORE/AFTER SCHOOL PROGRAM CASH 13,494 80,498 69,795 24,196
839 145 BRIARWOOD                  CASH 17,216 79,541 68,622 28,135
843 145 BRIARWOOD COKE ACCOUNT     CASH 19 42 - 61
859 145 BRIARWOOD BEFORE/AFTER SCHOOL PROG CASH 57,805 37,972 49,765 46,012
802 155 INSTRUCTIONAL/TECHNOLOGY SOFTWARE & EQ 3,880 - 3,880 -
807 155 STUDENT RELATED/DUES & FEES 106 - 106 -
813 155 INSTRUCTIONAL/STATE ADOPTED TEXTBOOK 55 - 55 -
830 155 STUDENT RELATED/AWARDS, GIFTS 583 - 583 -
839 155 FISHER                     CASH 63,890 68,611 113,404 19,097
843 155 FISHER COKE ACCOUNT        CASH 12 35 - 47
859 155 FISHER BEFORE/AFTER SCHOOL PROGRAM CASH 24,325 57,857 34,319 47,863
802 160 INSTRUCTIONAL/TECHNOLOGY SOFTWARE & EQ 2,230 - 2,230 -
807 160 STUDENT RELATED/DUES & FEES 336 - 336 -
839 160 SOONER                     CASH 19,547 29,865 26,131 23,281
843 160 SOONER COKE ACCOUNT        CASH 841 166 50 957
859 160 SOONER BEFORE/AFTER SCHOOL PROG CASH 52,192 40,548 42,823 49,918
802 165 INSTRUCTIONAL/TECHNOLOGY SOFTWARE & EQ 3,880 - 3,880 -
839 165 EARLYWINE                  CASH 16,196 40,182 40,590 15,788
843 165 EARLYWINE COKE ACCOUNT     CASH 250 158 95 313
859 165 EARLYWINE BEFORE/AFTER SCHOOL PROG CASH 30,814 36,565 40,697 26,682
802 170 INSTRUCTIONAL/TECHNOLOGY SOFTWARE & EQ 3,880 - 3,880 -
813 170 INSTRUCTIONAL/STATE ADOPTED TEXTBOOK 18 - 18 -
839 170 BROADMOORE                 CASH 69,575 137,217 97,070 109,722
843 170 BROADMOORE COKE ACCOUNT    CASH 327 244 - 571
859 170 BROADMOORE BEFORE/AFTER SCH PROG CASH 71,006 113,120 119,465 64,662
802 175 INSTRUCTIONAL/TECHNOLOGY SOFTWARE & EQ 3,880 - 3,880 -
839 175 EASTLAKE                   CASH 15,694 61,478 54,665 22,507
843 175 EASTLAKE COKE ACCOUNT      CASH 239 197 - 435
859 175 EASTLAKE BEFORE/AFTER CARE CASH ACCT. 10,046 57,601 43,869 23,778
807 180 STUDENT RELATED/DUES & FEES 553 - 553 -
839 180 BRYANT ELEMENTARY          CASH 91,511 96,358 134,546 53,322
843 180 BRYANT ELEMENTARY COKE ACT CASH 473 1,492 1,549 416
859 180 BRYANT BEFORE/AFTER CARE PROGRAM CASH 27,537 64,511 69,170 22,878
802 181 INSTRUCTIONAL/TECHNOLOGY SOFTWARE & EQ 3,880 - 3,880 -
807 181 STUDENT RELATED/DUES & FEES 333 - 333 -
813 181 INSTRUCTIONAL/STATE-ADOPTED TEXTBOOKS 349 - 349 -
839 181 WAYLAND BONDS ELEMENTARY 66,101 112,487 88,414 90,174
843 181 WAYLAND BONDS ELEM COKE ACCOUNT 1,134 235 312 1,057
859 181 WAYLAND BONDS AFTER SCHOOL PROG CASH 62,015 62,680 71,160 53,535
802 185 INSTRUCTIONAL/TECHNOLOGY SOFTWARE & EQ 3,880 - 3,880 -

45



ASSETS

CASH 4,161,805$ 6,558,624 6,418,284 4,302,145

LIABILITIES

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-2, CLEVELAND COUNTY
COMBINING STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN ASSETS AND LIABILITIES -

AGENCY FUNDS - REGULATORY BASIS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

839 185 OAKRIDGE CASH 26,846 127,354 134,077 20,122
843 185 OAKRIDGE COKE ACCOUNT CASH 14 47 - 61
859 185 OAKRIDGE BEFORE/AFTER SCHOOL PROG CASH 81,324 101,495 142,570 40,249
802 190 INSTRUCTIONAL/TECHNOLOGY SOFTWARE & EQ 3,880 - 3,880 -
803 190 INSTRUCTIONAL/COCURR SUPPLIES 442 - 442 -
807 190 STUDENT RELATED/DUES & FEES 407 - 407 -
813 190 INSTRUCTIONAL/STATE ADOPTED TEXTBOOKS 168 - 168 -
839 190 HERITAGE TRAILS CASH 48,837 138,640 125,857 61,620
843 190 HERITAGE TRAILS COKE ACCOUNT CASH 318 - 45 273
859 190 HERITAGE TRAILS BEFORE/AFTER PROG CASH 9,444 121,176 105,289 25,330
802 195 INSTRUCTIONAL/TECHNOLOGY SOFTWARE & EQ 3,880 - 3,880 -
803 195 EQUIPMENT UPKEEP/REPAIRS 150 - 150 -
807 195 STUDENT RELATED/DUES & FEES 185 - 185 -
839 195 SOUTH LAKE CASH ACCOUNT 96,395 172,466 162,347 106,514
843 195 SOUTHLAKE COKE CASH ACCOUNT 261 59 289 30
859 195 SOUTHLAKE DAYCARE CASH ACCOUNT 34,325 126,465 90,211 70,579
802 196 INSTRUCTIONAL/TECHNOLOGY SOFTWARE & EQ 580 - 580 -
803 196 INSTRUCT STAFF TRAINING/REGISTRATION FEE 90 - 90 -
839 196 TIMBER CREEK ACTIVITY CASH ACCT. 31,199 97,746 101,137 27,809
859 196 TIMBER CREEK BEFORE/AFTERCARE CASH ACCT. 20,339 100,373 55,873 64,839
803 610 EQUIPMENT UPKEEP/OTHER PROF. SERVICES 700 - 700 -
841 610 ARCHERY CASH ACCT. 460 1,410 650 1,220
846 610 BRINK ACADEMIC CLUB        CASH 501 348 488 361
853 610 BRINK BAND                 CASH 2,111 12,312 11,541 2,881
862 610 BRINK CHEERLEADERS         CASH 1,195 1,035 1,064 1,166
863 610 BRINK CHORUS               CASH 4,079 5,334 5,219 4,194
907 610 BRINK GYM ACCOUNT          CASH 110 - - 110
925 610 BRINK LIBRARY FUND         CASH 7,120 9,423 8,170 8,373
934 610 BRINK MULTICULTURAL CLUB   CASH 321 201 311 211
935 610 NATIVE AMERICAN ART CLUB 205 57 - 262
937 610 BRINK NATL HONOR SOCIETY   CASH 6,209 2,771 4,509 4,471
957 610 BRINK COKE ACCOUNT         CASH 437 2,166 2,167 436
961 610 BRINK SCIENCE CLUB         CASH 1,121 1,827 1,510 1,438
970 610 SPECIAL OLYMPICS CASH ACCT. 4,907 1,710 3,636 2,981
973 610 BRINK STUDENT COUNCIL      CASH 13,427 5,289 9,549 9,167
974 610 BRINK STUDENT STORE        CASH 62,000 81,085 85,065 58,019
990 610 WEB CASH ACCT. 1,482 1,598 1,826 1,254
991 610 BRINK CAMPUS BEAUTIFICATION 371 - - 371
993 610 BRINK YEARBOOK             CASH 26,340 7,450 3,271 30,519
803 650 INSTRUCTIONAL/DUES AND FEES 525 - 525 -
807 650 STUDENT RELATED/DUES & FEES 199 - 199 -
846 650 H.E. ACADEMIC CLUB         CASH 450 655 859 246
853 650 H.E. BAND                  CASH 7,796 1,403 3,243 5,956
862 650 H.E. CHEERLEADERS          CASH 637 5,301 5,616 322
863 650 H.E. CHORUS                CASH 287 2,085 2,170 202
875 650 STUDENT RELATED/UNIFORMS 708 - 708 -
878 650 MEDIA SERVICES/FURNITURE & FIXTURES 12,059 - 12,059 -
911 650 H.E. HOME ECONOMICS        CASH 1,021 2,562 2,779 805
925 650 H.E. LIBRARY               CASH 7,910 3,648 2,322 9,237
937 650 H.E. NATL JR. HONOR SOCIET CASH 1,003 4,988 5,205 786
938 650 NJHS STATE CONVENTION CASH ACCT. 2,981 220 3,201 -
939 650 H.E. NEWSPAPER             CASH 399 - - 399
957 650 H.E. COKE ACCOUNT          CASH 281 893 719 454
961 650 H.E. SCIENCE CLUB          CASH 5,896 100 242 5,754
965 650 H.E. SPECIAL EDUCATION     CASH 232 500 - 732
973 650 H.E. STUDENT COUNCIL       CASH 2,134 6,396 4,919 3,611
974 650 H.E. STUDENT STORE         CASH 52,600 93,281 103,619 42,262
992 650 H.E. WRITING CLUB          CASH 2,148 268 260 2,157
993 650 H.E. YEARBOOK              CASH 20,094 7,105 3,162 24,036
803 655 INSTRUCTIONAL/DUES & FEES 300 - 300 -
847 655 H.W. ACADEMIC TEAM CASH 337 - 15 322
851 655 H.W. ART CLUB              CASH 606 - - 606
853 655 H.W. BAND                  CASH 2,474 16,180 14,931 3,723
863 655 H.W. CHORUS                CASH 2,642 12,065 10,716 3,990
889 655 H.W. FACULTY ACCOUNT       CASH 2,068 3,519 3,028 2,559
911 655 H.W. HOME ECONOMICS        CASH 1,700 - - 1,700
925 655 H.W. LIBRARY               CASH 562 2,599 2,858 303
937 655 H.W. NATL HONOR SOCIETY    CASH 1,448 3,776 4,690 534
947 655 H.W. PEP CLUB              CASH 5,214 371 1,639 3,946
951 655 ROBOTICS CASH ACCT. 201 1,257 1,302 155
961 655 H.W. SCIENCE CLUB          CASH 2,482 (1) 158 2,322
965 655 H.W. SPECIAL EDUCATION     CASH 4,356 11,993 9,770 6,579

46



ASSETS

CASH 4,161,805$ 6,558,624 6,418,284 4,302,145

LIABILITIES

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-2, CLEVELAND COUNTY
COMBINING STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN ASSETS AND LIABILITIES -

AGENCY FUNDS - REGULATORY BASIS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

973 655 H.W. STUDENT COUNCIL       CASH 5,046 2,536 3,197 4,385
974 655 H.W. STUDENT STORE         CASH 25,684 52,759 49,639 28,805
993 655 H.W. YEARBOOK              CASH 7,351 4,665 4,104 7,912
847 680 W.J.H. ACADEMIC TEAM       CASH 259 90 120 229
851 680 W.J.H. ART CLUB            CASH 4,095 980 801 4,274
853 680 W.J.H. BAND                CASH 6,841 7,349 6,270 7,920
862 680 W.J.H. CHEERLEADERS        CASH 5,729 10,787 10,946 5,570
889 680 W.J.H. FACULTY FUND        CASH 783 2,026 1,951 858
907 680 W.J.H. GYM ACCOUNT         CASH 3,463 1,143 3,609 997
925 680 W.J.H. LIBRARY             CASH 1,352 1,934 1,742 1,545
937 680 W.J.H. NATIONAL HONOR SOC  CASH 1,232 2,606 1,639 2,199
938 680 NJHS STATE CONVENTION    CASH ACCOUNT - 5,780 - 5,780
939 680 W.J.H. NEWSPAPER           CASH 586 - - 586
947 680 W.J.H. PEP CLUB            CASH 296 - - 296
951 680 W.J.H.  ROBOTICS CLUB            CASH 2,744 3,263 2,522 3,486
965 680 W.J.H. SPECIAL EDUCATION   CASH 2,565 5,836 4,371 4,031
973 680 W.J.H STUDENT COUNCIL      CASH 2,560 4,669 5,408 1,820
974 680 W.J.H. STUDENT STORE       CASH 28,275 48,977 41,345 35,907
987 680 W.J.H. VOCAL               CASH 2,408 5,403 4,859 2,951
993 680 W.J.H. YEARBOOK            CASH 7,116 5,585 8,401 4,299
803 685 INSTRUCTIONAL/DUES AND FEES 100 - 100 -
847 685 C.J.H. ACADEMIC TEAM       CASH 234 127 119 243
851 685 C.J.H. ART CLUB            CASH 274 550 563 261
853 685 C.J.H. BAND                CASH 1,990 10,279 6,987 5,281
862 685 C.J.H. CHEERLEADERS        CASH 4,818 5,614 7,126 3,306
863 685 C.J.H. CHORUS              CASH 905 4,125 3,625 1,405
897 685 CJH FCCLA            CASH ACCT. 320 575 827 68
925 685 C.J.H. LIBRARY             CASH 958 6,557 6,375 1,140
937 685 C.J.H. NATL JR. HONOR SOC  CASH 314 227 385 156
939 685 C.J.H. NEWSPAPER           CASH 861 - 794 67
948 685 C.J.H. PEP CLUB/SPIRIT     CASH 221 - - 221
957 685 C.J.H. COKE ACCOUNT        CASH 2,843 4,263 5,287 1,818
961 685 C.J.H. SCIENCE CLUB        CASH 161 210 238 133
964 685 C.J.H. SPANISH CLUB   CASH ACCT 41 - - 41
970 685 C.J.H. SPECIAL OLYMPICS    CASH 509 500 325 685
973 685 C.J.H. STUDENT COUNCIL     CASH 1,377 4,583 4,096 1,864
974 685 C.J.H. STUDENT STORE       CASH 81,796 40,628 38,697 83,727
992 685 C.J.H. WRITING CLUB 1 - - 1
993 685 C.J.H. YEARBOOK            CASH 5,055 1,892 4,867 2,080
995 685 C.J.H. YOUTH & GOVERNMENT CASH 37 400 - 437
803 690 INSTRUCTIONAL/DUES & FEES 125 - 125 -
807 690 STUDENT RELATED/DUES & FEES 121 - 121 -
813 690 INSTRUCTIONAL/STATE-ADOPTED TEXTBOOKS 624 - 624 -
851 690 SJH ART CLUB           CASH ACCT. 589 2,025 2,373 241
853 690 BAND CASH ACCT. 5,165 7,052 9,259 2,958
862 690 CHEERLEADERS CASH ACCT 352 9,067 9,040 379
863 690 CHORUS   CASH ACCT. 1,383 7,696 7,304 1,776
897 690 SJH FCCLA        CASH ACCT. 669 1,075 514 1,230
925 690 LIBRARY    CASH ACCT. 637 5,340 4,934 1,042
937 690 NATIONAL JR. HONOR SOCIETY CASH ACCT. 28 2,983 2,557 455
951 690 ROBOTICS CASH ACCT. 793 5,133 5,193 733
961 690 SCIENCE CLUB CASH ACCT. 412 195 275 332
965 690 SPECIAL EDUCATION    CASH ACCT. 3,760 675 1,933 2,502
973 690 STUDENT COUNCIL    CASH ACCT. 1,525 5,348 4,936 1,937
974 690 STUDENT STORE    CASH ACCT. 14,609 54,893 37,984 31,518
993 690 YEARBOOK     CASH ACCT. 6,447 4,699 2,413 8,734
803 705 STUDENT RELATED/AWARDS, GIFTS, REFRESH 3,087 - 3,087 -
813 705 INSTRUCT/STATE ADOPTED TEXTBOOK 647 - 647 -
820 705 CLASS OF 2021    CASH ACCT. - 2,308 1,341 967
828 705 ADMISSIONS/PROM TICKETS 72 - 72 -
844 705 M.H.S ASTRONOMY CLUB CASH 487 - 480 7
847 705 M.H.S. ACADEMIC TEAM       CASH 22 - - 22
849 705 M.H.S. APOLLYRAS           CASH 997 5,851 6,664 184
850 705 CLASS OF 2017 CASH ACCT. 9,039 (64) 8,975 -
851 705 M.H.S. ART CLUB            CASH 940 2,132 2,285 787
853 705 M.H.S. BAND                CASH 1,093 1,013 1,900 207
857 705 CLASS OF 2018 CASH ACCT. 3,704 15,326 17,623 1,407
861 705 CLASS OF 2019    CASH ACCT. 1,476 24,335 22,379 3,432
862 705 M.H.S. CHEERLEADERS        CASH 4,518 513 626 4,405
870 705 CLASS OF 2020 CASH ACCT. 895 2,062 2,444 513
872 705 M.H.S. CLOSE-UP            CASH 126 - - 126
873 705 M.H.S.   FUSE       CASH 3,481 7,959 4,027 7,413

47



ASSETS

CASH 4,161,805$ 6,558,624 6,418,284 4,302,145

LIABILITIES

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-2, CLEVELAND COUNTY
COMBINING STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN ASSETS AND LIABILITIES -

AGENCY FUNDS - REGULATORY BASIS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

877 705 INSTRUCTIONAL/COCURR SUPPLIES 80 - 80 -
879 705 M.H.S. DECA                CASH 2 300 156 146
882 705 M.H.S. DRAMA               CASH 1,297 26,838 22,575 5,560
884 705 M.H.S. ENVIRONMENTAL SCIEN CASH 190 - 190 -
889 705 M.H.S. FACULTY FUND        CASH 3 - 3 -
895 705 M.H.S. FBLA                CASH 430 170 330 270
896 705 M.H.S. FFA                 CASH 2,696 72,795 71,410 4,081
897 705 M.H.S. FCCLA               CASH 285 4,464 3,934 815
898 705 M.H.S. FJA                 CASH 488 - - 488
900 705 M.H.S. FOREIGN LANGUAGE    CASH 48 - - 48
901 705 M.H.S. FRENCH CLUB         CASH 339 959 885 413
904 705 ART APPRECIATION     CASH ACCT. - 3,572 2,681 891
912 705 M.H.S. HORTICULTURE CLUB   CASH 4,605 9,390 8,108 5,887
921 705 M.H.S. KEY CLUB            CASH 3,978 3,976 3,602 4,352
924 705 M.H.S. LATIN CLUB          CASH 805 470 448 827
925 705 M.H.S. LIBRARY             CASH 706 503 - 1,209
928 705 LEADERSHIP CASH ACCT. 5,772 8,047 6,943 6,876
936 705 M.H.S. MOCK TRIAL          CASH 495 - 138 357
937 705 M.H.S. NATL HONOR SOCIETY  CASH 3,095 6,306 6,498 2,903
943 705 SCIENCE DEPT.        CASH ACCT. 912 3,600 1,915 2,597
949 705 M.H.S. POM PON SQUAD       CASH 998 623 1,010 611
951 705 ROBOTICS     CASH ACCT. - 2,016 1,101 915
952 705 M.H.S. PSAT/ACT            CASH 116 2,814 2,860 70
959 705 M.H.S. SCHOLASTIC          CASH 11,748 27,410 25,169 13,988
961 705 M.H.S. SCIENCE CLUB        CASH 376 - 60 316
964 705 M.H.S. SPANISH CLUB        CASH 746 420 133 1,033
965 705 M.H.S. SPECIAL EDUCATION   CASH 2,028 2,846 3,740 1,134
966 705 M.H.S. SPECIAL PROJECTS    CASH 3,347 6,475 - 9,822
967 705 M.H.S. SPEECH              CASH 494 5,655 4,037 2,112
973 705 M.H.S. STUDENT COUNCIL     CASH 613 6,907 6,719 800
974 705 M.H.S. STUDENT STORE       CASH 51,990 80,387 85,351 47,026
975 705 EQUIPMENT UPKEEP/REPAIRS 2,373 - 2,373 -
980 705 M.H.S. 3-D ART CASH 4,921 4,400 6,616 2,705
983 705 M.H.S. TEACHER'S COURTESY  CASH 1,761 4,975 5,055 1,681
993 705 M.H.S. YEARBOOK            CASH 33,268 39,975 37,803 35,440
995 705 M.H.S YOUTH AND GOVERNMENT CASH 380 1,300 1,206 474
803 710 PRINTING, PUBLISHING AND DUPLICATING SER 1,461 - 1,461 -
813 710 INSTRUCT/STATE ADOPTED TEXTBOOK 1,226 - 1,226 -
820 710 CLASS OF 2021      CASH ACCT. - 2,015 1,322 692
823 710 ASP (ANTI-SLAVERY PROJECT) CASH ACCT. 899 - - 899
847 710 W.H.S. ACADEMIC TEAM       CASH 1,022 240 335 927
848 710 CLASS OF 2016 CASH ACCT. 4,868 - 4,868 -
850 710 CLASS OF 2017 CASH ACCT. 5,827 4,799 10,626 -
851 710 W.H.S. ART CLUB            CASH 4,258 6,881 3,576 7,562
852 710 W.H.S. ASIAN AMERICAN CLUB CASH 3,028 3,621 4,290 2,360
853 710 W.H.S. BAND                CASH 2,029 7,238 4,436 4,832
855 710 W.H.S. BUSINESS DEPARTMENT CASH 217 - - 217
857 710 CLASS OF 2018 CASH ACCT. 4,958 18,361 15,186 8,133
858 710 W.H.S. BOOK CLUB CASH 87 (7) - 80
861 710 CLASS OF 2019     CASH ACCT. 2,870 31,213 18,607 15,475
862 710 W.H.S. CHEERLEADERS        CASH 5,000 14,983 13,887 6,097
870 710 CLASS OF 2020 CASH ACCT. 1,173 1,387 1,031 1,529
882 710 W.H.S. DRAMA               CASH 735 - - 735
883 710 W.H.S. ENGLISH DEPARTMENT  CASH 1,583 - - 1,583
885 710 W.H.S. EBONY SOCIETY       CASH 119 166 169 115
895 710 W.H.S. FBLA                CASH 299 - 37 262
897 710 W.H.S. FCCLA               CASH 317 144 152 309
899 710 W.H.S. FORENSICS           CASH 7,963 7,640 7,461 8,142
902 710 FRENCH NATIONAL HONOR SOCIETY 857 6,427 4,400 2,884
904 710 ART APPRECIATION      CASH ACCT. - 2,105 1,732 373
909 710 W.H.S. HANDS CLUB          CASH 5,272 221 - 5,492
914 710 W.H.S. JCL                 CASH 678 1,026 780 924
915 710 HISPANIC AMERICAN CLUB CASH ACCT. 1,954 113 - 2,067
920 710 W.H.S. KELLIE MCWILLIAMS MEMORIAL CASH 1 - 1 -
921 710 W.H.S. KEY CLUB            CASH 1,111 11,189 11,147 1,153
927 710 W.H.S. LINK CREW CASH 2,805 1,394 2,723 1,475
929 710 W.H.S. MATH CLUB           CASH 159 - - 159
931 710 W.H.S. MEDIA               CASH 798 1,801 412 2,186
933 710 W.H.S. MUSICAL PRODUCTIONS CASH 20,772 21,764 23,598 18,938
934 710 W.H.S. MULTICULTURAL CLUB CASH 3,746 8,599 10,011 2,334
937 710 W.H.S. NATIONAL HONOR SOCIETY CASH 19,787 24,940 19,859 24,868
939 710 W.H.S. NEWSPAPER           CASH 5,496 - - 5,496

48



ASSETS

CASH 4,161,805$ 6,558,624 6,418,284 4,302,145

LIABILITIES

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-2, CLEVELAND COUNTY
COMBINING STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN ASSETS AND LIABILITIES -

AGENCY FUNDS - REGULATORY BASIS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

940 710 NASA          CASH ACCT. - 3,351 1,766 1,585
945 710 W.H.S. SERVICE CLUB        CASH 1,187 - 1,187 -
949 710 W.H.S. POM POM SQUAD       CASH 776 513 90 1,199
950 710 RED CROSS CLUB      CASH ACCT. - 989 292 697
952 710 W.H.S. PSAT/ACT            CASH 2,233 2,740 2,192 2,781
954 710 W.H.S. SPECIAL ED - MR/MH  CASH 1,717 1,500 2,863 354
960 710 W.H.S. STAFF ACCOUNT       CASH 512 1,549 1,228 833
961 710 W.H.S. SCIENCE CLUB        CASH 1,964 3,030 42 4,952
962 710 W.H.S. SHOW CHOIR          CASH 587 19,161 19,161 586
963 710 W.H.S. SOCIAL STUDIES DEPT CASH 107 - - 107
964 710 SPANISH CLUB CASH ACCT. 3,374 7,783 6,529 4,628
966 710 W.H.S. SPECIAL PROJECTS    CASH 9,558 10,103 - 19,661
970 710 W.H.S. SPECIAL OLYMPICS    CASH 6,145 16,291 16,036 6,401
972 710 W.H.S. STAND CLUB CASH 2,398 1,264 1,136 2,526
973 710 W.H.S. STUDENT COUNCIL     CASH 3,206 12,812 13,280 2,738
974 710 W.H.S. STUDENT STORE       CASH 99,596 151,116 99,361 151,351
980 710 W.H.S.  VISUAL ART          CASH 3,505 5,901 7,230 2,176
985 710 W.H.S. STUDENT PLANNERS    CASH 116 21,130 21,063 184
993 710 W.H.S. YEARBOOK CASH 70,880 47,829 27,668 91,041
995 710 W.H.S.YOUTH AND GOVERNMENT CASH 1,769 4,723 4,143 2,348
803 715 ENTERPRISE OPERATIONS/FUNDRAISER 1,368 - 1,368 -
807 715 STUDENT RELATED/DUES & FEES 988 - 988 -
813 715 INSTRUCT/STATE ADOPTED TEXTBOOK 798 - 798 -
820 715 CLASS OF 2021     CASH ACCT. - 2,088 641 1,447
847 715 SOUTHMOORE  ACADEMIC TEAM     CASH 2,472 - 1,327 1,145
850 715 CLASS OF 2017 CASH ACCT. 809 (10) 799 -
851 715 SOUTHMOORE ART CLUB/3D CASH 1,191 7,781 8,580 392
853 715 SOUTHMOORE  BAND     CASH 14,119 10,293 14,351 10,062
857 715 CLASS OF 2018 CASH ACCT. 5,907 12,941 18,848 -
860 715 BLACK STUDENT ASSOCIATION CASH ACCT. 9 - 9 -
861 715 CLASS OF 2019 CASH ACCOUNT 1,454 17,811 16,756 2,509
862 715 SOUTHMOORE  CHEERLEADERS     CASH 1,282 14,555 5,219 10,618
863 715 SOUTHMOORE  CHORUS     CASH 1 832 270 563
868 715 SOUTHMOORE  POM PON JV 378 - - 378
869 715 SOUTHMOORE  CHEER JV 40 - - 40
870 715 CLASS OF 2020 CASH ACCT. 1,355 692 582 1,465
879 715 SOUTHMOORE  DECA     CASH 10,890 21,925 13,605 19,210
882 715 SOUTHMOORE  DRAMA     CASH 6,177 29,952 35,009 1,120
895 715 SOUTHMOORE BUSINESS PRO. OF AMERICA CASH 147 - - 147
897 715 SOUTHMOORE  FCCLA     CASH 11,177 6,820 7,348 10,649
901 715 FRENCH CLUB CASH ACCT. 507 - - 507
913 715 SOUTHMOORE INTERACT CASH 95 - 95 -
914 715 SOUTHMOORE JCL/JR. CLASSICAL LEAGUE CASH 49 633 629 53
926 715 SOUTHMOORE    MODEL UN     CASH 202 2,325 1,169 1,358
927 715 SOUTHMOORE LINK CREW CASH 3,394 2,109 2,187 3,316
931 715 SOUTHMOORE  MEDIA     CASH 2,466 241 278 2,429
934 715 SOUTHMOORE MULTICULTURAL CLUB CASH 1,350 462 832 981
937 715 SOUTHMOORE  NATIONAL HONOR SOCIETY  CASH 9,871 13,144 10,609 12,406
940 715 NATIVE AMERICAN STUDENT ASSOC. CASH ACCT 1,210 982 988 1,205
949 715 SOUTHMOORE  POM PON SQUAD     CASH 2,105 513 806 1,812
952 715 SOUTHMOORE  PSAT/ACT     CASH 7,172 11,268 6,868 11,572
954 715 SOUTHMOORE SPECIAL ED. MR/MH CASH 4,357 6,011 4,512 5,855
960 715 SOUTHMOORE  STAFF ACCOUNT     CASH 289 1,341 1,371 259
961 715 SOUTHMOORE    SCIENCE CLUB   CASH ACCT 2,283 1,226 2,267 1,242
965 715 SOUTHMOORE SPECIAL EDUCATION  CASH A 1,126 6,043 3,980 3,189
966 715 SPECIAL PROJECTS CASH ACCT. 17,244 299 - 17,543
967 715 SOUTHMOORE  SPEECH     CASH 4,476 625 1,501 3,601
970 715 SOUTHMOORE  SPECIAL ATHLETES 13,870 4,638 7,789 10,719
973 715 SOUTHMOORE  STUDENT COUNCIL     CASH 6,145 4,028 6,358 3,816
974 715 SOUTHMOORE  STUDENT STORE     CASH 30,060 107,116 122,575 14,601
980 715 SOUTHMOORE VISUAL ART/2-D CASH 3,557 8,190 7,864 3,882
985 715 SOUTHMOORE  STUDENT PLANNERS     CASH 17,260 15,448 23,516 9,192
992 715 SOUTHMOORE WRITING CLUB CASH 69 - 69 -
993 715 SOUTHMOORE  YEARBOOK    CASH 53,769 35,181 45,901 43,049
994 715 STOMP TEAM/HIP HOP 12 - 12 -
995 715 SOUTHMOORE  YOUTH AND GOVERNMENT    CASH 84 3,620 3,113 591

TOTAL 4,161,805 6,558,624 6,418,284 4,302,145

49





Beginning Ending
Federal Grantor / Pass Through Federal CFDA Federal Grantor's/ Program or Balance Revenue Total Balance

Number Pass-through No. Award Amount 7/1/17 Collected Expenditures 6/30/18

U.S. Department of Education
Direct Programs:
    Title VII Indian Education 84.060A S060A170041 562,082$ 464,387 562,082 97,695
    P.L. 874 Impact Aid 84.041 136,413 136,413 50,774
    P.L. 874 Impact Aid Special Education 84.041 31,981 69,552 31,981 88,867
        Sub Total 730,476 69,552 632,781 701,723 97,695

Passed Through State Department of Education:
   *Title I 84.010 S010A170036 2,660,923 1,842,648 2,423,520 580,872
    Title I Note 84.010 675,389 675,389
    Title I School Improvement Note 84.010 2,439 2,439
    Title I Neglected 84.010 S010A170036 45,964 23,202 26,220 3,018
    Title I Neglected - Note 84.010 1,035 1,035
   Special Education Program Cluster:
      IDEA-B Flowthrough 84.027 H027A170051 5,088,368 3,484,074 3,952,993 468,919
      IDEA-B Flowthrough Note 84.027 520,852 520,852
      IDEA-B Preschool 84.173 H173A170084 134,569 107,159 128,171 21,012
      IDEA-B Preschool - Note 84.173 19,688 19,688
    Title II  Part A 84.367 S367A170035 659,055 383,905 453,881 69,976
    Title II  Part A - Note 84.367 26,917 26,917
    Title III Emergecy Immigration 84365A S365A170036 67,930 33,865 33,865 -
    Title III Emergecy Immigration 84.365A 15,724 15,724
    Title III Part A Limited English Proficiency 84.365 S365A170036 99,041 29,554 34,086 4,532
    Title III Part A Limited English Proficiency- Note 84.365 1,955 1,955
        Sub Total 8,755,850 1,263,999 7,168,406 7,052,736 1,148,329

Passed Through State Department of Career and Technology Education:
    Carl Perkins 84.048 102,569 67,014 102,569 35,555
    Carl Perkins - Note 84.048 36,443 36,443
    Carl Perkins - Supplement  Note 84.048 9,820 9,820
    High Schools That Work 84.048 36,000 0 35,703 35,703
    High Schools That Work - Note 84.048 33,149 33,149
        Sub Total 138,569 79,412 146,426 138,272 71,258

U.S. Department of Agriculture:
Passed Through State Department of Education
 *Child Nutrition Program Cluster:
    School Breakfast Program 10.553 6OK300329 1,457,975 1,062,191 520,145
    National School Lunch Program 10.555 6OK300329 1,863,778 4,240,650 4,543,663
    Summer Food Program 10.559 6OK300329 15,332 99,766 43,498
        Sub Total 3,337,085 5,402,607 5,107,306 0
Passed Through Department of Human Service
    Commodities - Note 1 10.555 681,451 681,451

U.S. Department of Homeland Security:
Passed Through Federal Emergency Management Agency:
Passed Through State of Oklahoma Department of Emergency Management
  *Public Assistance Alternative Program 97.036 PA-06-OK-4117 3,231,252 1,615,626 3,231,252 1,615,626

Other Federal Assistance:
    Johnson O'Malley 15.130 A17AV000335 105,477 73,940 48,433
    Johnson O'Malley 15.130 A14AV000230 34,887 34,887

Rehabilitation 84.126 20,000 8,627 8,098
Rehabilitation - Note 84.126 2,102 2,102

        Sub Total 125,477 36,989 84,669 91,418 0

Total Federal Assistance 12,981,624$ 4,787,037 15,731,966 17,004,158 2,932,908

Note - These amounts represent reimbursements for prior year expenditures which were not received until the current fiscal year.

Note 1 - Basis of Presentation - The accompanying schedule of expenditures of federal awards includes the federal activity of the District  for the year ended June 30, 2018.  This
information is presented in accordance with the requirements of Title 2 U.S. Code of Federal Regulations Part 200, Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and
Audit Requirements for Federal Awards (Uniform Guidance) . Because the schedule presents only a selected portiion of the operations of the District, it is not intended and does
not present the financial position, changes in net assets, or cash flows of the District.

Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies - Expenditiures reported on this schedule are reported on the regulatory basis of accounting consistent with the preparation of
the combined financial statements except as noted in Note 3. Expenditures are recognized following the cost principles contained in the Uniform Guidance, wherein certain types
of expenditures are not allowable or are limited as to reimbursement.  The District has elected not to use the 10 percent de minimus indirect cost rate allowed under the Uniform Guidance.

Note 3 - Non-Monetary Assistance - Commodities received by the District in the amount of  $681,451  were of a non-monetary nature and therefore the total revenue does not
agree with the financial statements

* Major Programs

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-2, CLEVELAND COUNTY
SCHEDULE OF EXPENDITURES OF FEDERAL AWARDS - REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

51



POSITION BOND COVERAGE
BONDING COMPANY COVERED NUMBER AMOUNT EFFECTIVE DATES

RLI Insurance Co. Superintendent LSM0600531 100,000$ 7-1-17 to 7-1-18

Universal Insurance Co. Treasurer LSF601083374 250,000 10-6-17 to 10-6-18
Deputy Treasurer 3686578 250,000 9-16-17 to 9-16-18

The Ohio Casualty Co. Deputy Treasurer 5093033 250,000 12-10-17 to 12-10-18

America First Insurance Co. Board Clerk 2820964 10,000 7-1-17 to 7-1-18
Child Nutrition 2820964 10,000 7-1-17 to 7-1-18
Activity Fund 2820964 10,000 7-1-17 to 7-1-18
Encumbrance clerk 2820964 10,000 7-1-17 to 7-1-18
Minutes clerk 2820964 10,000 7-1-17 to 7-1-18

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-2,  CLEVELAND COUNTY
STATEMENT OF STATUTORY, FIDELITY AND HONESTY BONDS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

52




	1- Cover sheets.pdf
	2 -  Independent Auditor's Report-2018(1).pdf
	2a  Report on Internal control and compliance  in accordance with GAS-2018(1).pdf
	2b - Report on Compliance for each Major prog and IC by uniform guidance 2018(1).pdf
	3 - Disposition - prior year reportable conditions(1).pdf
	3a - Schedule of Audit results, findings and questioned costs  w signif def.pdf
	4 - Combined Statement of Assets, Liab... all fund types1.pdf
	4b - Budget to Actual - general fund.pdf
	4c - Budget to Actual - special revenue funds.pdf
	4e - Budget to Actual - debt service fund.pdf
	5-Notes To Combine Financial Statements 2017.pdf
	6 - All special revenue fund - balance sheet.pdf
	6a - All special revenue funds - income statements.pdf
	6b - All special revenue funds - budget to actual.pdf
	6c - All capital project fund - balance sheet.pdf
	6d - All capital project funds - income statements.pdf
	6e - June FY18 R-4.pdf
	7 - Schedule of Expenditures of Federal Awards - 2018.pdf
	7a - Surety bond coverage schedule(1).pdf
	8a - Insur.pdf

