





























FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS
AND REPORTS OF INDEPENDENT AUDITOR

DURANT INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-72,
BRYAN COUNTY, OKLAHOMA

JUNE 30, 2018

Audited by

SANDERS, BLEDSOE & HEWETT
CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS, LLP

BROKEN ARROW, OK



2

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-72, BRYAN COUNTY
SCHOOL DISTRICT OFFICIALS

JUNE 30, 2018

BOARD OF EDUCATION

President

Joyce Northcutt

Vice-President

Brian Bond

Member

David Jones

Member

Nate Morrison

Member

Janie Umsted

MINUTES CLERK

Kelly Dillard

SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS

Duane Merideth

SCHOOL DISTRICT TREASURER

Sharon Wadley



3

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-72, BRYAN COUNTY
JUNE 30, 2018

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Page No.

School District Officials 2

Table of Contents 3-4

Independent Auditor’s Report 5-6

Independent Auditor’s Report on Internal Control over Financial
Reporting and on Compliance and Other Matters Based on an Audit of
Financial Statements Performed in Accordance with Government
Auditing Standards 7-8

Independent Auditor’s Report on Compliance for each Major
Program and on Internal Control over Compliance Required
By the Uniform Guidance 9-10

Disposition of Prior Year’s Significant Deficiencies and
Material Instances of Non-Compliance 11

Schedule of Audit Results, Findings and Questioned Costs 12

Combined Financial Statements – Regulatory Basis

Combined Statement of Assets, Liabilities and Fund Balance
All Fund Types and Account Groups – Regulatory Basis 13

Combined Statement of Revenues Collected, Expenditures and
Changes in Cash Fund Balances – All Governmental Fund Types and
Expendable Trusts – Regulatory Basis 14

Combined Statement of Revenues Collected, Expenditures and
Changes in Cash Fund Balances – Budget and Actual
– Budgeted Governmental Fund Types – Regulatory Basis 15-17

Notes to Combined Financial Statements - Regulatory Basis 18-37

Combining Financial Statements – Regulatory Basis

Combining Statement of Assets, Liabilities and Fund Balance
– All Capital Projects Funds – All Regulatory Basis 38



4

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-72, BRYAN COUNTY
JUNE 30, 2018

Page No.

Combining Financial Statements – Regulatory Basis – cont’d

Combining Statement of Revenues Collected, Expenditures and
Changes in Cash Fund Balances – All Capital Projects Funds
– Regulatory Basis 39

Combining Statement of Changes in Assets and Liabilities
– Agency Funds – Regulatory Basis 40-42

Schedule of Expenditures of Federal Awards – Regulatory Basis 43

Schedule of Statutory, Fidelity and Honesty Bonds 44

Schedule of Accountant’s Professional Liability Insurance Affidavit 45



5

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT

November 16, 2018

The Honorable Board of Education
Durant School District Number I-72
Durant, Bryan County, Oklahoma

Report on the Financial Statements

We have audited the accompanying combined fund type and account group financial statements – regulatory basis of the
Durant School District Number I-72, Durant, Bryan County, Oklahoma (the District), as of and for the year ended June 30,
2018, and the related notes to the financial statements, which collectively comprise the District’s basic financial statements as
listed in the table of contents.

Management’s Responsibility for the Financial Statements

Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance with financial
reporting provisions of the Oklahoma State Department of Education to meet financial reporting requirements of the State of
Oklahoma; this includes determining that the regulatory basis of accounting is an acceptable basis for the preparation of the
financial statements in the circumstances.  Management is also responsible for the design, implementation, and maintenance of
internal control relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements that are free from material
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

Auditor’s Responsibility

Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit.  We conducted our audit in
accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America, and the standards applicable to
financial audits contained in Government Auditing Standards, issued by the Comptroller General of the United States.  Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free from material misstatement.

An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements.  The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material
misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.  In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers
internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit
procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of
the entity’s internal control.  Accordingly, we express no such opinion.  An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness
of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements.

We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinions.

Basis for Adverse Opinion on U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles

As discussed in Note 1, the financial statements are prepared by the District, on the basis of the financial reporting provisions
of the Oklahoma State Department of Education, which is a basis of accounting other than accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America, to comply with the requirements of the Oklahoma State Department of Education.
The effects on the financial statements of the variances between the regulatory basis of accounting described in Note 1 and
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, although not reasonable determined, are presumed to
be material.



6

Adverse Opinion on U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles

In our opinion, because the significance of the matter discussed in the “Basis for Adverse Opinion on U.S. Generally Accepted
Accounting Principles” paragraph, the financial statements referred to in the first paragraph do not present fairly, in accordance
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, the financial position of the District as of June
30, 2018, the changes in its financial position, or, where applicable, its cash flows for the year then ended.

Basis for Qualified Opinion on Regulatory Basis of Accounting

The financial statements referred to above do not include the general fixed asset account group, which is a departure from the
regulatory basis of accounting prescribed by the Oklahoma State Department of Education.  The amount that should be
recorded in the general fixed asset account group is not known.

Qualified Opinion on Regulatory Basis of Accounting

In our opinion, except for the effects of the matter described in the “Basis for Qualified Opinion on Regulatory Basis of
Accounting” paragraph, the financial statements referred to in the first paragraph present fairly, in all material respects, the
assets, liabilities and fund balance arising from regulatory basis transactions of each fund type and account group of the
District, as of June 30, 2018, and the revenues collected and expenditures paid and encumbered for the year then ended on the
regulatory basis of accounting described in Note 1.

Other Matters

Our audit was conducted for the purpose of forming opinions on the financial statements that collectively comprise the
District’s basic financial statements.  The combining statements – regulatory basis, are presented for purposes of additional
analysis and are not a required part of the basic financial statements.  The schedule of expenditures of federal awards is
presented for purposes of additional analysis as required by Title 2 U.S. Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) Part 200, Uniform
Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards, and is also not a required part of
the basic financial statements.

The combining statements – regulatory basis and the schedule of expenditures of federal awards are the responsibility of
management and were derived from and relate directly to the underlying accounting and other records used to prepare the basic
financial statements.  Such information has been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the audit of the basic financial
statements and certain additional procedures, including comparing and reconciling such information directly to the underlying
accounting and other records used to prepare the basic financial statements or to the basic financial statements themselves, and
other additional procedures in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America.  In our
opinion, the combining statements – regulatory basis and the schedule of expenditures of federal awards are fairly stated in all
material respects in relation to the basic financial statements as a whole.

Other Reporting required by Government Auditing Standards

In accordance with Government Auditing Standards, we have also issued our report dated November 16, 2018 on our
consideration of the District’s internal control over financial reporting and on our tests of its compliance with certain provisions
of laws, regulations, contracts and grant agreements and other matters.  The purpose of that report is to describe the scope of
our testing of internal control over financial reporting and compliance and the results of that testing, and not to provide an
opinion on the internal control over financial reporting or on compliance.  That report is an integral part of an audit performed
in accordance with Government Auditing Standards in considering the District’s internal control over financial reporting and
compliance.

Sanders, Bledsoe & Hewett
Certified Public Accountants, LLP

Broken Arrow, OK



7

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING
AND ON COMPLIANCE AND OTHER MATTERS BASED ON AN AUDIT OF FINANCIAL

STATEMENTS PERFORMED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
GOVERNMENT AUDITING STANDARDS

November 16, 2018

The Honorable Board of Education
Durant School District Number I-72
Durant, Bryan County, Oklahoma

We have audited in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America and the
standards applicable to financial audits contained in Government Auditing Standards, issued by the Comptroller General of
the United States, the accompanying fund type and account group financial statements – regulatory basis within the
combined financial statements of the Durant School District Number I-72, Durant, Bryan County, Oklahoma (District), as
of and for the year ended June 30, 2018, and the related notes to the financial statements, which collectively comprise the
District’s basic financial statements, and have issued our report thereon dated November 16, 2018, which was adverse with
respect to the presentation of the financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States because the presentation followed the regulatory basis of accounting for Oklahoma school districts and did
not conform to the presentation requirements of the Governmental Accounting Standards Board.  However, our report was
qualified for the omission of the general fixed asset account group with respect to the presentation of financial statements
on the regulatory basis of accounting authorized by the Oklahoma State Board of Education.

Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

In planning and performing our audit of the financial statements, we considered the District’s internal control over financial
reporting (internal control) to determine the audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances for the purpose of
expressing our opinions on the financial statements, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of
District’s internal control.  Accordingly, we do not express an opinion on the effectiveness of District’s internal control.

A deficiency in internal control exists when the design or operation of a control does not allow management or employees,
in the normal course of performing their assigned functions, to prevent, or detect and correct, misstatements on a timely
basis.  A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control, such that there is a
reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the entity’s financial statements will not be prevented, or detected and
corrected on a timely basis.  A significant deficiency is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control
that is less severe than a material weakness, yet important enough to merit attention by those charged with governance.

Our consideration of internal control was for the limited purpose described in the first paragraph of this section and was not
designed to identify all deficiencies in internal control that might be material weaknesses or, significant deficiencies.  Given
these limitations, during our audit we did not identify any deficiencies in internal control that we consider to be material
weaknesses.  However, material weaknesses may exist that have not been identified.



8

Compliance and Other Matters

As part of obtaining reasonable assurance about whether the District’s financial statements are free of material
misstatement, we performed tests of its compliance with certain provisions of laws, regulations, contracts, and grant
agreements, non-compliance with which could have a direct and material effect on the determination of financial statements
amounts.  However, providing an opinion on compliance with those provisions was not an objective of our audit, and
accordingly, we do not express such an opinion.  The results of our tests disclosed no instances of noncompliance or other
matters that are required to be reported under Government Auditing Standards.

Purpose of this Report

The purpose of this report is solely to describe the scope of our testing of internal control and compliance and the results of
that testing, and not to provide an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control or on compliance.  This report
is an integral part of an audit performed in accordance with Government Auditing Standards in considering the entity’s
internal control and compliance.  Accordingly, this communication is not suitable for any other purpose.

Sanders, Bledsoe & Hewett
Certified Public Accountants, LLP

Broken Arrow, OK



9

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT ON COMPLIANCE FOR EACH MAJOR PROGRAM AND ON
INTERNAL CONTROL OVER COMPLIANCE REQUIRED

BY THE UNIFORM GUIDANCE

November 16, 2018

The Honorable Board of Education
Durant School District Number I-72
Durant, Bryan County, Oklahoma

Report on Compliance for Each Major Federal Program

We have audited Durant School District Number I-72, Durant, Bryan County, Oklahoma (District)’s, compliance with the
types of compliance requirements described in the OMB Compliance Supplement that could have a direct and material
effect on each of the District’s major federal programs for the year ended June 30, 2018.  The District’s major federal
programs are identified in the summary of auditor’s results section of the accompanying schedule of findings and
questioned costs.

Management’s Responsibility

Management is responsible for compliance with the requirements of laws, regulations, contracts, and grants applicable to its
federal programs.

Auditor’s Responsibility

Our responsibility is to express an opinion on compliance for each of the District’s major federal programs based on our
audit of the types of compliance requirements referred to above.  We conducted our audit of compliance in accordance with
auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America; the standards applicable to financial audits contained
in Government Auditing Standards, issued by the Comptroller General of the United States, and the audit requirements of
Title 2 U.S. Code of Federal Regulations Part 200, Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit
Requirements for Federal Awards (Uniform Guidance). Those standards and Uniform Guidance require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether noncompliance with the types of compliance requirements
referred to above that could have a direct and material effect on a major federal program occurred.  An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence about the District’s compliance with those requirements and performing such other
procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.

We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion on compliance for each major federal program.
However, our audit does not provide a legal determination of the District’s compliance.

Opinion on Each Major Federal Program

In our opinion. the District, complied, in all material respects with the types of compliance requirements referred to above
that could have a direct and material effect on each of its major federal programs for the year ended June 30, 2018.



10

Report on Internal Control Over Compliance

Management of the District, is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over compliance with
the types of compliance requirements referred to above.  In planning and performing our audit of compliance, we
considered the District’s internal control over compliance with the types of requirements that could have a direct and
material effect on each major federal program to determine the auditing procedures that are appropriate in the
circumstances for the purpose of expressing an opinion on compliance for each major federal program and to test and report
on internal control over compliance in accordance with Uniform Guidance, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion
on the effectiveness of internal control over compliance.  Accordingly, we do not express an opinion on the effectiveness of
the District’s internal control over compliance.

A deficiency in internal control over compliance exists when the design or operation of a control over compliance does not
allow management or employees, in the normal course of performing their assigned functions to prevent or detect and
correct, noncompliance with a type of compliance requirement of a federal program on a timely basis.  A material weakness
in internal control over compliance is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over compliance, such
that there is a reasonable possibility that material noncompliance with a type of compliance requirement of a federal
program will not be prevented, or defected and corrected, on a timely basis.  A significant deficiency in internal control over
compliance is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over compliance with a type of compliance
requirement of a federal program that is less severe than a material weakness in internal control over compliance, yet
important enough to merit attention by those charged with governance.

Our consideration of internal control over compliance was the limited purpose described in the first paragraph of this
section and was not designed to identify all deficiencies in internal control over compliance that might be material
weaknesses or significant deficiencies.  We did not identify any deficiencies in internal control over compliance that we
consider to be material weaknesses.  However, material weaknesses may exist that have not been identified.

The purpose of this report on internal control over compliance is solely to describe the scope of our testing of internal
control over compliance and the results of that testing based on the requirements of the Uniform Guidance.  Accordingly,
this report is not suitable for any other purpose.

Sanders, Bledsoe & Hewett
Certified Public Accountants, LLP

Broken Arrow, OK



11

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-72, BRYAN COUNTY
DISPOSITION OF PRIOR YEAR’S SIGNIFICANT DEFICIENCIES AND

MATERIAL INSTANCES OF NON-COMPLIANCE
JUNE 30, 2018

There were no prior year significant deficiencies.



12

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-72, BRYAN COUNTY
SCHEDULE OF AUDIT RESULTS, FINDINGS AND QUESTIONED COSTS

JUNE 30, 2018

Section 1 - Summary of Auditor’s Results:

1. An adverse opinion on the combined financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles and a qualified opinion for the omission of
the general fixed asset account group on the combined financial statements in
conformity with a regulatory basis of accounting prescribed by the Oklahoma State
Department of Education.

2. The audit disclosed no instances of noncompliance which are material to the financial
statements.

3. The audit disclosed no significant deficiencies in the internal controls over financial
reporting.

4. An unqualified opinion was issued on the compliance of major programs.

5. The audit disclosed no significant deficiencies in the internal controls over major
programs.

6. The audit disclosed audit findings which are required to be reported under the
Uniform Guidance.

7. Programs determined to be major are Child Nutrition Programs (10.553, 10.555,
10.558, 10.559), and the Special Education Programs (84.027, 84.173), which were
clustered in determination.

8. The dollar threshold used to determine between Type A and Type B programs was
$750,000.

9. The auditee was determined not to be a low-risk auditee.

Section 2 – Findings relating to the financial statements required to be reported in
accordance with GAGAS:

None

Section 3 – Findings and questioned costs for federal awards:

None



FIDUCIARY ACCOUNT
FUND TYPES GROUP
TRUST AND GENERAL TOTALS

SPECIAL DEBT CAPITAL AGENCY LONG-TERM (MEMORANDUM
GENERAL REVENUE SERVICE PROJECTS FUNDS DEBT ONLY)

ASSETS

Cash 11,437,562$ 2,339,171 1,498,878 3,989,599 817,662 20,082,872
Amounts available in debt service 1,498,878 1,498,878
Amount to be provided for retirement
    of long-term debt 7,730,791 7,730,791

Total Assets 11,437,562$ 2,339,171 1,498,878 3,989,599 817,662 9,229,669 29,312,541

LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCE

Liabilities:
    Warrants payable 3,559,118$ 262,114 3,821,232
    Funds held for school organizations 817,662 817,662
    Long-term debt:
      Bonds payable 8,435,000 8,435,000
      Capital leases 794,669 794,669
          Total liabilities 3,559,118 0 0 262,114 817,662 9,229,669 13,868,563

Fund Balance:
   Restricted 2,339,171 1,498,878 3,727,485 7,565,534
   Unassigned 7,878,444 7,878,444
      Cash fund balances 7,878,444 2,339,171 1,498,878 3,727,485 0 0 15,443,978

Total Liabilities and Fund Balance 11,437,562$ 2,339,171 1,498,878 3,989,599 817,662 9,229,669 29,312,541

The notes to the combined financial statements are an integral part of this statement

GOVERNMENTAL FUND TYPES

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-72, BRYAN COUNTY
COMBINED STATEMENT OF ASSETS, LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCE -

ALL FUND TYPES AND ACCOUNT GROUPS - REGULATORY BASIS
JUNE 30, 2018

13



TOTALS
SPECIAL DEBT CAPITAL (MEMORANDUM

GENERAL REVENUE SERVICE PROJECTS ONLY)
Revenues collected:
    Local sources 5,691,931$ 736,880 2,279,347 8,708,158
    Intermediate sources 779,345 779,345
    State sources 17,756,698 17,756,698
    Federal sources 3,321,958 3,321,958
    Interest earnings 5,301 1,101 6,119 2,242 14,763
    Non-revenue receipts 54,512 54,512
        Total revenues collected 27,609,745 737,981 2,285,466 2,242 30,635,434

Expenditures:
    Instruction 15,594,854 81,805 663,226 16,339,885
    Support services 8,749,291 366,843 682,720 9,798,854
    Operation of non-instructional services 1,901,071 134,672 2,035,743
    Facilities acquisition & construction services 55,861 410,106 465,967
    Other outlays :
      Debt service requirements 2,408,585 2,408,585
      Reimbursement 500 500
      Private nonprofit schools 5,394 5,114 10,508
          Total expenditures 26,306,971 583,320 2,408,585 1,761,166 31,060,042

Excess of revenues collected over (under)
   expenditures before other financing sources (uses) 1,302,774 154,661 (123,119) (1,758,924) (424,608)

Other financing sources (uses):
  Bond proceeds 3,468,914 3,468,914
  Adjustments to prior year encumbrances 90 90
          Total other financing sources (uses) 90 0 0 3,468,914 3,469,004

Excess of revenues collected over (under)
  expenditures and other financing sources (uses) 1,302,864 154,661 (123,119) 1,709,990 3,044,396

Cash fund balances, beginning of year 6,575,580 2,184,510 1,621,997 2,017,495 12,399,582

Cash fund balances, end of year 7,878,444$ 2,339,171 1,498,878 3,727,485 15,443,978

The notes to the combined financial statements are an integral part of this statement

GOVERNMENTAL FUND TYPES

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-72, BRYAN COUNTY
COMBINED STATEMENT OF REVENUES COLLECTED, EXPENDITURES AND CHANGES IN CASH FUND BALANCES

- ALL GOVERNMENTAL FUND TYPES AND EXPENDABLE TRUSTS - REGULATORY BASIS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

14



Variance
Original/Final Favorable

Budget Actual (Unfavorable)
Revenues Collected:
   Local sources 4,768,338$ 5,691,931 923,593
   Intermediate sources 676,297 779,345 103,048
   State sources 16,945,944 17,756,698 810,754
   Federal sources 3,235,507 3,321,958 86,451
   Interest earnings 5,301 5,301
   Non-revenue receipts 54,512 54,512
       Total revenues collected 25,626,086 27,609,745 1,983,659

Expenditures:
   Instruction 21,502,236 15,594,854 5,907,382
   Support services 8,736,604 8,749,291 (12,687)
   Operation of non-instructional services 1,901,071 1,901,071
   Facilities acquisition &  constr services 55,861 55,861
   Other outlays:
     Reimbursement 500 500
     Private nonprofit schools 5,394 5,394
        Total expenditures 32,201,666 26,306,971 5,894,695

Excess of revenues collected
   over (under) expenditures before
   adjustments to prior year encumbrances (6,575,580) 1,302,774 7,878,354

Adjustments to prior year encumbrances 0 90 90

Excess of revenues collected
   over (under) expenditures (6,575,580) 1,302,864 7,878,444

Cash fund balance, beginning of year 6,575,580 6,575,580 0

Cash fund balance, end of year $                      0 7,878,444 7,878,444

The notes to the combined financial statements are an integral part of this statement

GENERAL FUND

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I- 72, BRYAN COUNTY
COMBINED STATEMENT OF REVENUES COLLECTED, EXPENDITURES AND

CHANGES IN CASH FUND BALANCES - BUDGETED GOVERNMENTAL FUND TYPES - REGULATORY BASIS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

15



Variance
Original/Final Favorable

Budget Actual (Unfavorable)
Revenues Collected:
   Local sources 628,529$ 736,880 108,351
   Interest earnings 1,101 1,101
       Total revenues collected 628,529 737,981 109,452

Expenditures:
   Instruction 81,805 (81,805)
   Support services 366,843 (366,843)
   Facilities acquisition &  construction services 134,672 (134,672)
   Unbudgeted 2,813,039 2,813,039
         Total expenditures 2,813,039 583,320 2,229,719

Excess of revenues collected
   over (under) expenditures (2,184,510) 154,661 2,339,171

Cash fund balances, beginning of year 2,184,510 2,184,510 0

Cash fund balances, end of year $                      0 2,339,171 2,339,171

The notes to the combined financial statements are an integral part of this statement

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I- 72, BRYAN COUNTY
COMBINED STATEMENT OF REVENUES COLLECTED, EXPENDITURES AND

CHANGES IN CASH FUND BALANCES - BUDGETED GOVERNMENTAL FUND TYPES - REGULATORY BASIS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

SPECIAL REVENUE FUND (BUILDING)

16



Variance
Original/Final Favorable

Budget Actual (Unfavorable)
Revenues Collected:
   Local sources 2,146,442$ 2,279,347 132,905
   Interest earnings 6,119 6,119
       Total revenues collected 2,146,442 2,285,466 139,024

Requirements:
    Bonds 2,109,000 2,300,000 (191,000)
    Coupons 104,447 106,760 (2,313)
    Fiscal agent fee 1,825 (1,825)
      Total requirements 2,213,447 2,408,585 (195,138)

Excess of revenue collected over (under)
   expenditures (67,005) (123,119) (56,114)

Cash fund balance, beginning of year 1,621,997 1,621,997 0

Cash fund balance, end of year 1,554,992$ 1,498,878 (56,114)

The notes to the combined financial statements are an integral part of this statement

DEBT SERVICE FUND

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-72, BRYAN COUNTY
COMBINED STATEMENT OF REVENUES COLLECTED, EXPENDITURES AND

CHANGES IN CASH FUND BALANCES - BUDGETED GOVERNMENTAL FUND TYPES - REGULATORY BASIS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

17



18

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-72, BRYAN COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

The accompanying financial statements of the Durant Public Schools Independent District
No. I-72 (the “District”), have been prepared in conformity with another comprehensive basis
of accounting prescribed by the Oklahoma State Department of Education as authorized by
Oklahoma Statutes. Accordingly, the accompanying financial statements are not intended to
present financial positon and results of operations in conformity with the accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The District’s accounting
policies are described in the following notes that are an integral part of the District’s financial
statements.

A. Reporting Entity

The District is a corporate body for public purposes created under Title 70 of the Oklahoma
Statutes and accordingly is a separate entity for operating and financial reporting purposes.
The District is part of the public school system of Oklahoma under the general direction and
control of the State Board of Education and is financially dependent on State of Oklahoma
support.  The general operating authority for the public school system is the Oklahoma
School Code contained in Title 70, Oklahoma Statutes.

The governing body of the District is the Board of Education composed of six elected
members.  The appointed superintendent is the executive officer of the District. The Board,
constituting an on-going entity, is the level of government, which has governance
responsibilities over all activities, related to public elementary and secondary school
education within the jurisdiction of the local independent school district. The District
receives funding from local, state and federal government sources and must comply with the
requirements of these funding source entities. However, the District is not included in any
other governmental “reporting entity” as defined in Section 2100, Codification of
Governmental Accounting and Financial Reporting Standards, since Board members are
elected by the public and have decision making authority, the power to designate
management, the responsibility to significantly influence operations and primary
accountability for fiscal matters.

In evaluating how to define the District, for financial reporting purposes, management has
considered all potential component units. The decision to include a potential component unit
in the reporting entity was made by applying the criteria established by the Governmental
Accounting Standards Board (GASB).  The basic – but not the only – criterion for including
a potential component unit within the reporting entity is the governing body’s ability to
exercise oversight responsibility.  The most significant manifestation of this ability is
financial interdependency.  Other manifestations of the ability to exercise oversight
responsibility include, but are not limited to, the selection of governing authority, the
designation of management, the ability to significantly influence operations and
accountability for fiscal matters.  A second criterion used in evaluating potential component
units is the scope of public service.  Application of this criterion involves considering



19

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-72, BRYAN COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

1.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES – cont’d

A. Reporting Entity – cont’d

whether the activity benefits the District and/or its citizens, or whether the activity is
conducted within the geographic boundaries of the District and is generally available to its
patrons.  A third criterion used to evaluate potential component units for inclusion or
exclusion from the reporting entity is the existence of special financing relationships,
regardless of whether the District is able to exercise oversight responsibilities.  Based upon
the application of these criteria, there are no potential component units included in the
District’s reporting entity.

B. Measurement Focus

The District uses funds and account groups to report on its financial position and the results
of its operations.  Fund accounting is designed to demonstrate legal compliance and to aid
financial management by segregating transactions related to certain District functions or
activities.

A fund is a separate accounting entity with a self-balancing set of accounts.  An account
group, on the other hand, is a financial reporting device designed to provide accountability
for certain assets and liabilities that are not recorded in the funds because they do not directly
affect net expendable available financial resources.

Funds are classified into three categories:  Governmental, proprietary and fiduciary.  Each
category, in turn, is divided into separate “fund types.”

Governmental Fund Types

Governmental funds are used to account for all or most of a government’s general activities,
including the collection and disbursement of earmarked monies (special revenue funds), the
acquisition or construction of general fixed assets (capital projects funds), and the servicing
of general long-term debt (debt service funds).

General Fund – The general fund is used to account for all financial transactions except those
required to be accounted for in another fund. Major revenue sources include state and local
property taxes and state funding under the Foundation and Incentive Aid Program.
Expenditures include all costs associated with the daily operations of the schools except for
programs funded for building repairs and maintenance, school construction and debt service
on bonds and other long-term debt.  The general fund includes federal and state restricted
monies that must be expended for specific programs.



20

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-72, BRYAN COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES – cont’d

B. Measurement Focus - cont’d

Special Revenue Funds – Special revenue funds account for revenue sources that are
restricted to expenditures for specific purposes. The special revenue funds typically include
the building, co-op and child nutrition funds. The district did not maintain a co-op or child
nutrition fund during the 2017-18 fiscal year.

Building Fund – The building fund consists mainly of monies derived from property
taxes levied for the purpose of erecting, remodeling, repairing, or maintaining school
buildings and for purchasing furniture, equipment and computer software to be used
on or for school district property, for paying energy and utility costs, for purchasing
telecommunications services, for paying fire and casualty insurance premiums for
school facilities, for purchasing security systems, and for paying salaries of security
personnel.

Co-op Fund – The co-op fund is established when the boards of education of two or
more school districts enter into cooperative agreements and maintain joint programs.
The revenues necessary to operate a cooperative program can come from federal,
state, or local sources, including the individual contributions of participating school
districts.  The expenditures for this fund would consist of those necessary to operate
and maintain the joint  programs.

Child Nutrition Fund - The child nutrition fund consists of monies derived from
federal and state financial assistance and food sales.  This fund is used to account for
the various nutrition programs provided to students. The District operates their child
nutrition program within the general fund.

Debt Service Fund – The debt service fund is the District’s sinking fund and is used to
account for the accumulation of financial resources for the payment of general long-term
(including judgments) debt principal, interest and related costs.  The primary revenue sources
are local property taxes levied specifically for debt service and interest earnings from
temporary investments.

Capital Projects Fund – The capital projects fund is the District’s bond fund and is used to
account for the proceeds of bond sales to be used exclusively for acquiring school sites,
constructing and equipping new school facilities, renovating existing facilities and acquiring
transportation equipment.



21

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-72, BRYAN COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES – cont’d

B. Measurement Focus – cont’d

Fiduciary Fund Types

Fiduciary funds are used to account for assets held on behalf of outside parties, including
other governments, or on behalf of other funds within the District.  The terms “non-
expendable” and “expendable” refer to whether or not the District is under an obligation to
maintain the trust principal.  Agency funds generally are used to account for assets that the
District holds on behalf of others as their agent and do not involve measurement of results of
operation.

Expendable Trust Funds – Expendable trust funds typically include the gifts and endowments
fund. The District did not maintain any expendable trust funds during the 2017-18 fiscal year.

Gifts and Endowments Fund – The gifts and endowments fund receives its assets   by
way   of    philanthropic   foundations, individuals,    or    private organizations for
which no repayment or special service to the contributor is expected. This fund is
used to promote the general welfare of the District.

Agency Fund – The agency fund is the school activities fund which is used to account for
monies collected principally through the fundraising efforts of students and District-
sponsored groups.  The administration is responsible, under the authority of the Board, for
collecting, disbursing and accounting for these activity funds.

Account Groups

An account group is not a fund and consists of a self-balancing set of accounts used only to
establish accounting control over long-term debt and fixed assets.

General Long-Term Debt Account Group – This account group is established to account for
all the long-term debt of the District, which is offset by the amount available in the debt
service fund and the amount to be provided in future years to complete retirement of the debt
principal.  It is also used to account for other liabilities (judgments and lease purchases)
which are to be paid from funds provided in future years.

General Fixed Assets Account Group – This account group is used by governments to
account for the property, plant and equipment of the school district.  The District does not
have the information necessary to include this group in its financial statements.



22

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-72, BRYAN COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES – cont’d

B. Measurement Focus – cont’d

Memorandum Only - Total Column

The total column on the combined financial statements – regulatory basis is captioned
“memorandum only” to indicate that it is presented only to facilitate financial analysis.  Data
in this column does not present financial position or results of operations in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.  Neither is such data
comparable to a consolidation.  Interfund eliminations have not been made in the aggregation
of this data.

C. Basis of Accounting and Presentation

The District prepares its financial statements in a presentation format that is prescribed by the
Oklahoma State Department of Education. This format is essentially the generally accepted
form of presentation used by state and local governments prior to the effective date of GASB
Statement No. 34, Basic Financial Statements – Management’s Discussion and Analysis for
State and Local Governments with certain modifications. This format differs significantly
from that required by GASB 34.

The financial statements are essentially prepared on the basis of cash receipts and
disbursements modified as required by the regulations of the Oklahoma State Department of
Education as follows:

 Encumbrances represented by purchase orders, contracts, and other commitments for the
expenditure of monies are recorded as expenditures when approved.

 Investments are recorded as assets when purchased.
 Inventories of school supplies are recorded as expenditures and not as inventory assets.
 Warrants payable are recorded as liabilities when issued.
 Long-term debt is recorded in the General Long-Term Debt Account Group and not in

the basic financial statements.
 Compensated absences are recorded as expenditures when paid and not recorded as a

liability.
 Fixed assets are recorded in the General Fixed Asset Account Group and not in the basic

financial statements. Fixed assets are not depreciated.

This regulatory basis of accounting differs from accounting principles generally accepted in
the United States of America, which require revenues to be recognized when they become
available and measurable, or when they are earned, and expenditures or expenses to be
recognized when the related liabilities are incurred for governmental fund types; and, when
revenues are earned.



23

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-72, BRYAN COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

1.   SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES – cont’d

C. Basis of Accounting and Presentation – cont’d

Basis of accounting refers to when revenues and expenditures are recognized in the accounts
and reported in the financial statements. Basis of accounting relates to the timing of the
measurements made, regardless of the measurement focus applied. All governmental type
funds are accounted for using the regulatory basis of accounting.  Revenues are recognized
when they are received rather than earned and expenditures are generally recognized when
encumbered/reserved rather than at the time the related fund liability is incurred.  These
practices differ from accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.

D. Budgets and Budgetary Accounting

The District is required by state law to prepare an annual budget.  A preliminary budget must
be submitted to the Board of Education by December 31, for the fiscal year beginning the
following July 1.  If the preliminary budget requires an additional levy, the District must hold
an election on the first Tuesday in February to approve the levy. If the preliminary budget
does not require an additional levy, it becomes the legal budget.  If an election is held and the
taxes are approved, then the preliminary budget becomes the legal budget.  If voters reject the
additional taxes, the District must adopt a budget within the approved tax rate.

A budget is legally adopted by the Board of Education for all funds (with the exception of the
trust and agency funds) that includes revenues and expenditures.

The 2017-18 Estimate of Needs was not amended by any supplemental appropriations

Encumbrances represent commitments related to unperformed contracts for goods or
services.  Encumbrance accounting – under which purchase orders and other commitments of
resources are recorded as expenditures of the applicable fund – is utilized in all governmental
funds of the District.  Unencumbered appropriations lapse at the end of each fiscal year.
While the Debt Service Fund is a governmental fund, a comparison of budget to actual
schedule is presented in the financial statements, although the board can exercise no control
of the revenue sources for this fund (except interest earnings), and no control over its
expenditures.



24

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-72, BRYAN COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES – cont’d

E. Assets, Liabilities and Fund Balance

Cash and cash equivalents – The District considers all cash on hand, demand deposit
accounts, and highly liquid investments, with an original maturity of three months or less
when purchased, to be cash and cash equivalents.

Investments – The District considers investments of direct obligations of the United States
government and agencies, certificates of deposits, savings accounts or savings certificates
with maturities of greater than three months. All investments are recorded at cost, which
approximates market value.

Inventories – The value of consumable inventories at June 30, 2018, is not material to the
combined financial statements.

Fixed Assets and Property, Plant and Equipment – The District has not maintained a record
of general fixed assets, and, accordingly, a General Fixed Assets Account Group required by
the regulatory basis of accounting prescribed by the Oklahoma State Department of
Education is not included in the financial statements. General fixed assets purchased are
recorded as expenditures in the various funds at the time of purchase.

Warrants Payable – Warrants are issued to meet the obligations for goods and services
provided to the District.  The District recognizes a liability for the amount of outstanding
warrants that have yet to be redeemed by the District’s treasurer.

Encumbrances – Encumbrances represent commitments related to purchase orders, contracts,
other commitments for expenditures or resources, and goods or services received by the
District for which a warrant has not been issued.  An expenditure is recorded and a liability is
recognized for outstanding encumbrances at year end in accordance with the regulatory basis
of accounting. While the regulatory basis that is used for the Debt Service Fund approximates
full accrual accounting, the accruals recorded are reported to meet regulatory requirements,
as opposed to the requirements of generally accepted accounting principles.

Compensated Absences – The District provides vacation and sick leave benefits in
accordance with Title 70 of the Oklahoma Statutes, Article 6-104, which provides for annual
sick leave and personal business days. District policy allows certified employees to
accumulate such days to a maximum number of days. Vested or accumulated vacation leave
that is expected to be liquidated with expendable available financial resources had not been
reported as an expenditure of the governmental fund that will pay it since the financial
statements have been prepared on the regulatory basis of accounting. This practice differs
from generally accepted accounting principles.



25

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-72, BRYAN COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

1.   SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES – cont’d

E. Assets, Liabilities and Fund Balance – cont’d

Funds Held for School Organizations – Funds held for school organizations represent the
funds received or collected from students or other cocurricular and extracurricular activities
conducted in the District, control over which is exercised by the board of education.  These
funds are credited to the account maintained for the benefit of each particular activity within
the school activity fund.

Long-Term Debt – Long-term debt is recognized as a liability of a governmental fund when
due, or when resources have been accumulated in the debt service fund for payment early in
the following year.  For other long-term obligations, only that portion expected to be financed
from expendable available financial resources is reported as a fund liability of a
governmental fund.  The remaining portion of such obligations is reported in the general
long-term debt account group.

Fund Balance – In the fund financial statements, governmental funds report the hierarchy of
fund balances. The hierarchy is based primarily on the degree of spending constraints placed
upon use of resources for specific purposes versus availability of appropriation. An important
distinction that is made in reporting fund balance is between amounts that are considered
nonspendable (i.e., fund balance associated with assets that are not in spendable form, such
as inventories or prepaid items, long-term portions of loans and notes receivable, or items
that are legally required to be maintained intact (such as the corpus of a permanent fund)) and
those that are spendable (such as fund balance associated with cash, investments or
receivables).

Amount in the spendable fund balance category are further classified as restricted,
committed, assigned or unassigned, as appropriate.

Restricted fund balance represents amounts that are constrained either externally by
creditors (such as debt covenants), grantors, contributors or laws or regulations of other
governments; or by law, through constitutional provisions or enabling legislation.

Committed fund balance represents amounts that are useable only for specific purposes
by formal action of the government’s highest level of decision-making authority. Such
amounts are not subject to legal enforceability (like restricted amounts), but cannot be
used for any other purpose unless the government removes or changes the limitation by
taking action similar to that which imposed the commitment.



26

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-72, BRYAN COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

1.   SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES – cont’d

E. Assets, Liabilities and Fund Balance – cont’d

Assigned fund balance represents amounts that are intended to be used for specific
purposes, but are neither restricted nor committed. Intent is expressed by the governing
body itself, or a subordinated high-level body or official who the governing body has
delegated the authority to assign amounts to be used for specific purposes. Assigned fund
balances include all remaining spendable amounts (except negative balances) that are
reported in governmental funds other than the general fund, that are neither restricted nor
committed, and amounts in the general fund that are intended to be used for specific
purposes in accordance with the provisions of the standard.

Unassigned fund balance is the residual classification for the general fund. It represents
the amounts that have not been assigned to other funds, and that have not been restricted,
committed, or assigned to specific purposes within the general fund.

F. Revenue and Expenditures

Local Revenues – Revenue from local sources is the money generated from within the
boundaries of the District and available to the District for its use.  The District is authorized
by state law to levy property taxes which consist of ad valorem taxes on real and personal
property within the District.  These property taxes are distributed to the District’s general,
building and sinking funds based on the levies approved for each fund.  The County
Assessor, upon receipt of the certification of tax levies from the county excise board, extends
the tax levies on the tax rolls for submission to the county treasurer prior to October 1.  The
county treasurer must commence tax collection within fifteen days of receipt of the tax rolls.
The first half of taxes is due prior to January 1.  The second half is due prior to April 1. If the
first payment is not made in a timely manner, the entire tax becomes due and payable on
January 2.  Second half taxes become delinquent on April 1, of  the  year following   the year
of  assessment.   If   not paid by the following October 1, the property is offered for sale for
the amount of taxes due.  The owner has two years to redeem the property by paying the
taxes and penalty owed.  If at the end of two years the owner has not done so, the purchaser is
issued a deed to the property. Other local sources of revenues include tuition, fees, rentals,
disposals, commissions and reimbursements.

Intermediate Revenues - Revenue from intermediate sources is the amount of money from
funds collected by an intermediate administrative unit, or a political subdivision between the
District and the state, and distributed to Districts in amounts that differ in proportion to those
which are collected within such systems.



27

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-72, BRYAN COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES – cont’d

F. Revenue and Expenditures – cont’d

State Revenues – Revenues from state sources for current operations are primarily governed
by the state aid formula under the provisions of Article XVIII, Title 70, Oklahoma Statutes.
The State Board of Education administers the allocation of state aid funds to school districts
based on information accumulated from the Districts.

After review and verification of reports and supporting documentation, the State Department
of Education may adjust subsequent fiscal period allocations of money for prior year errors
disclosed by review.  Normally, such adjustments are treated as reductions from or additions
to the revenue of the year when the adjustment is made.

The District receives revenue from the state to administer certain categorical educational
programs. State Board of Education rules require that revenue earmarked for these programs
be expended only for the program  for which the money is provided and require that the
money not expended as of the close of the fiscal year be carried forward into the following
year to be expended for the same categorical programs.  The State Department of Education
requires that categorical educational program revenues be accounted for in the general fund.

Federal Revenues – Federal revenues consist of revenues from the federal government in the
form of operating grants or entitlements.  An operating grant is a contribution to be used for a
specific purpose, activity or facility. A grant may be received either directly from the federal
government or indirectly as a passthrough from another government, such as the state.
Entitlement is the amount of payment to which the District is entitled pursuant to an
allocation formula contained in applicable statutes. The majority of the federal revenues
received by the District are apportioned to the general fund. The District maintains a
separate child nutrition fund and the federal revenues received for the child nutrition
programs are apportioned there.

Non-Monetary Transactions – The District receives commodities form the U.S. Department
of Agriculture. The value of these commodities has been included in the Schedule of
Expenditures of Federal Awards; however, they have not been included in the financial
statements as either revenue or expense since they are not reported under the regulatory basis
of accounting.

Interest Earnings – Represent compensation for the use of financial sources over a period of
time.

Non-Revenue Receipts – Non-revenue receipts represent receipts deposited into a fund that
are not new revenues to the District, but the return of assets.



28

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-72, BRYAN COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES – cont’d

F. Revenue and Expenditures – cont’d

Instruction Expenditures – Instruction expenditures include the activities dealing directly
with the interaction between teachers and students. Teaching may be provided for students in
a school classroom, in another location, such as a home or hospital, and in other learning
situations, such as those involving cocurricular activities.  It may also be provided through
some other approved medium, such as television, radio, telephone and correspondence.
Included here are the activities of teacher assistants of any type (clerks, graders, teaching
machines, etc.) which assist in the instructional process. The activities of tutors, translators
and interpreters would be recorded here. Department chairpersons who teach for any portion
of time are included here.  Tuition/transfer fees paid to other LEAs would be included here.

Support Services Expenditures – Support services expenditures provide administrative,
technical (such as guidance and health) and logistical support to facilitate  and  enhance
instruction.  These  services exist as adjuncts for fulfilling the objectives of instruction,
community services and enterprise programs, rather than as entities within themselves.

Operation of Non-Instructional Services Expenditures – Activities concerned with providing
non-instructional services to students, staff or the community.

Facilities Acquisition and Construction Services Expenditures – Consists of activities
involved with the acquisition of land and buildings; remodeling buildings; the construction of
buildings and additions to buildings; initial installation or extension of service systems and
other built-in equipment; and improvements to sites.

Other Outlays Expenditures – A number of outlays of governmental funds are not properly
classified as expenditures, but still require budgetary or accounting control. These are
classified as Other Outlays. These include debt service payments (principal and interest).

Other Uses Expenditures – This includes scholarships provided by private gifts and
endowments; student aid and staff awards supported by outside revenue sources (i.e.,
foundations).  Also, expenditures for self-funded employee benefit programs administered
either by the District or a third party administrator.

Repayment Expenditures – Repayment expenditures represent checks/warrants issued to
outside agencies for refund or restricted revenue previously received for overpayment, non-
qualified expenditures and other refunds to be repaid from District funds.



29

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-72, BRYAN COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES – cont’d

F. Revenue and Expenditures – cont’d

Inter-fund Transactions – Quasi-external transactions are accounted for as revenues,
expenditures or expenses.  Transactions that constitute reimbursements to a fund or
expenditures/expenses initially made from it that are properly applicable to another fund, are
recorded as expenditures/expenses in the fund that is reimbursed.

All other inter-fund transactions, except quasi-external transactions and reimbursements, are
reported as transfers.  Nonrecurring or nonroutine permanent transfers of equity are reported
as residual equity transfers.  All other interfund transfers are reported as operating transfers.
There were no inter-fund transfers made during the 2017-18 fiscal year.

2. CASH AND INVESTMENTS

Custodial Credit Risk – Custodial credit risk is the risk that in the event of a bank failure, the
District’s deposits may not be returned to the District. The District’s cash deposits and
investments at June 30, 2018, were $20,082,872, at financial institutions, and were
completely insured or collateralized by federal depository insurance, direct obligations of the
U.S. Government, or securities held by the District or by its agent in the District’s name.

Investment Interest Rate Risk – Interest rate risk is the risk that changes in interest rates will
adversely affect the fair market value of an investment. Due to the required liquidity for those
investments, these funds have no defined maturity dates. The District does not have a formal
policy that limits investment maturities as a means of managing its exposure to fair value
losses from increasing interest rates.

Investment Credit risk – Credit risk is the risk that the issuer or other counterparty to an
investment will not fulfill its obligations. The District does not have a formal policy limiting
its investment choices, other than the limitation of state law as follows:

 Direct obligations of the U.S. Government, its agencies and instrument to which the full
faith and credit of the U.S. Government is pledged, or obligations to the payment of
which the full faith and credit of the State is pledged.

 Certificates of deposit or savings accounts that are either insured or secured with
acceptable collateral with in-state financial institutions, and fully insured certificates of
deposit or savings accounts in out-of-state financial institutions.

 With certain limitation, negotiable certificates of deposit, prime bankers acceptances,
prime commercial paper and repurchase agreements with certain limitations.



30

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-72, BRYAN COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

2.   CASH AND INVESTMENTS – cont’d

 County, municipal or school district tax supported debt obligations, bond or revenue
anticipation notes, money judgments, or bond or revenue anticipation  notes of public
trusts whose beneficiary is a county, municipality or school district.

 Notes or bonds secured by mortgage or trust deed insured by the Federal Housing
Administrator and debentures issued by the Federal Housing Administrator, and in
obligations of the National Mortgage Association.

 Money market funds regulated by the SEC and in which investments consist of the
investments mentioned in the previous bullet items.

Concentration of Investment Credit Risk – The District places no limit on the amount it may
invest in any one issuer.

3. INTERFUND RECEIVABLES AND PAYABLES

There were no interfund receivables or payables at June 30, 2018.

4. GENERAL LONG-TERM DEBT

State statutes prohibit the District from becoming indebted in an amount exceeding the
revenue to be received for any fiscal year without approval by the District’s voters.  Bond
issues have been approved by the voters and issued by the District for various capital
improvements.  These bonds are required to be fully paid serially within 25 years of the date
of issue. General long-term debt of the District consists of bonds payable and capital leases.
Debt service requirements for bonds and judgments are paid solely from the fund balance and
the future revenues of the debt service fund.

The following is a summary of the long-term debt transactions of the District for the year
ended June 30, 2018:

Bonds Capital
Payable Leases Total

Balance, July 1, 2017 7,275,000$ 767,031 8,042,031
Additions 3,460,000 100,000 3,560,000
Retirements (2,300,000) (72,362) (2,372,362)

Balance, June 30, 2018 8,435,000$ 794,669 9,229,669



31

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-72, BRYAN COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

4.   GENERAL LONG-TERM DEBT – cont’d

A brief description of the outstanding long-term debt at June 30, 2018, is set forth below:

Amount
Outstanding

General Obligation Bonds:

Combined Purpose Bonds, Series 2017, original issue
$3,460,000, interest rate of 1.50%-2%, due in an
initial installment of $790,000, and a final installment
of $890,000, due 6-1-18 $ 3,460,000

Building Bonds, Series 2014, original issue
$3,260,000, interest rate of 1.0% to 1.25%, due in an
initial installment of $770,000, and a final installment
of $830,000, due 3-1-20 1,660,000

Combined Purpose Bonds, Series 2014, original issue
$1,090,000, interest rate of 0.9% to 1.1%, due in an
initial installment of $210,000, and a final installment
of $220,000, due 3-1-19 220,000

General Obligation Bonds, Series 2016, original issue
$1,965,000, interest rate of 1.20%, due in annual
installments of $490,000, and a final installment
of $495,000, due 6-1-21 1,475,000

Building Bonds, Series 2016, original issue
$1,940,000, interest rate of 1.00% to 1.30%, due in
an initial installment of $320,000, and annual
installments of $405,000, final payment due 7-1-22 1,620,000

Lease Purchase Agreements:

Lease purchase of real property, dated 5-20-06, totaling
$1,260,000, interest rates of 4.52%, due in
annual installments  of $97,032, final
installment, due 9-19-26 704,669



32

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-72, BRYAN COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

4.   GENERAL LONG-TERM DEBT – cont’d

Lease purchase of Boys and Girls Club, dated 1-10-17, totaling
$150,000, no interest rate, due in annual installments of
of $10,000, final installment, due 1-9-27 $ 90,000

Total $ 9,229,669

The annual debt service requirements for the retirement of the bonds and capital leases,
including the payment of principal and interest are as follows:

Year Ending
June 30 Principal Interest Total

2019 1,615,181 151,828 1,767,009
2020 2,593,127 128,252 2,721,379
2021 1,871,206 88,155 1,959,361
2022 1,379,425 60,282 1,439,707

2023-26 1,770,730 78,489 1,849,219
Total 9,229,669$ 507,006 9,736,675

Interest paid on general long-term debt during the 2017-18 fiscal year totaled $99,715.

5.   EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEM

Description of Plan

The District participates in the state-administered Oklahoma Teachers’ Retirement System,
which is a cost sharing, multiple-employer defined benefit public employee retirement
system  (PERS), which  is administered  by the Board  of  Trustees  of  the Oklahoma
Teachers’ Retirement System (the “System”).  The System provides retirement and disability
benefits, annual cost-of-living adjustments, and death benefits to plan members  and
beneficiaries.   Title  70  Section  17  of the Oklahoma Statutes establishes benefit provisions
and may be amended only through legislative action.  The Oklahoma Teachers’ Retirement
System issues a publicly available financial report that includes financial statements and
required supplementary information for the System.  That report may be obtained by writing
to the Oklahoma Teachers’ Retirement System, P.O. Box 53624, Oklahoma City, OK 73152,
or by calling 405-521-2387.



33

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-72, BRYAN COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

5.   EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEM – cont’d

Basis of Accounting – cont’d

The System’s financial statements are prepared using the cash basis of accounting, except for
accruals of interest income.  Plan member contributions are recognized in the period in which
the contributions are made.  Benefits and refunds are recognized when paid.  The pension
benefit obligation is a standardized disclosure measure of the present value of pension
benefits.  This pension valuation method reflects the present value of estimated pension
benefits that will be paid in future years as a result of  employee  services  performed  to  date
and is adjusted for the  effect of projected salary increases.  There are no actuarial valuations
performed on individual school districts.  The System has an under-funded pension benefit
obligation as determined as part of the latest actuarial valuation.

Funding Policy

The District, the State of Oklahoma, and the participating employee make contributions.  The
contribution rates for the District and its employees are established by and may be amended
by Oklahoma Statutes.  The rates are not actuarially determined.  The rates are applied to the
employee’s earnings plus employer-paid fringe benefits.  The required contribution for the
participating members is 7.0% of compensation.  Contributions received by the System from
the State of Oklahoma are used to offset required employer contributions by the local school
district.  For the 2017-18 fiscal year, the District contributed 9.5% and the State of Oklahoma
contributed the remaining amount during the year.  The District is allowed by Oklahoma
Teachers’ Retirement System to make the required contributions on behalf of the
participating members.  In addition, if a member’s salary is paid in part by federal or private
funds, the contribution on that portion of the salary paid by those funds must be matched by
the District at 7.8%.

Annual Pension Cost

The District’s total contributions for 2018, 2017 and 2016 were $2,350,378, $2,324,885, and
$2,400,278, respectively.

Ten-year historical trend information is presented in the Teacher’s Retirement System of
Oklahoma Annual Report for the year ended June 30, 2018. This information is useful in
assessing the pension plan’s accumulation of sufficient assets to pay pension benefits as they
become due.  Please visit www.ok.gov/TRS for all plan information.

GASB Statement 68 became effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2014, and
significantly changes pension accounting and financial reporting for governmental employers
who participate in a pension plan, such as the System, and who prepare published financial
statements on an accrual basis using Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Since the
District does not prepare and present their financial statements on an accrual basis, the net



34

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-72, BRYAN COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

5.   EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEM – cont’d

Annual Pension Cost – cont’d

pension amount is not required to be presented on the audited financial statements. The
amount of calculated pension liability for the District at June 30, 2017 (the latest information
available) was $24,387,215.

6.  RISK MANAGEMENT

The District is exposed to various risks of loss related to torts; theft of, damage to and
destruction of assets; errors and omissions; injuries to employees; or acts of God.  The
District purchases commercial insurance to cover these risks, including general and auto
liability, property damage, and public officials liability.  Settled claims resulting from risks
have not exceeded the commercial insurance coverage in any of the past three fiscal years.

The School participates in a risk pool for Workers’ Compensation coverage in which there is
a transfer or pooling of risks among the participants of that pool.  In accordance with GASB
No. 10, the School reports the required contribution to the pool, net of  refunds,  as insurance
expense. The risk pool is the  Oklahoma School Assurance  Group (OSAG), an organization
formed for the purpose of providing workers’ compensation coverage to participating schools
in the State of Oklahoma. In that capacity, OSAG is responsible for providing loss control
services and certain fiscal activities, including obtaining contract arrangements for the
underwriting, excess insurance agreements, claims processing, and legal defense for any and
all claims submitted to it during the plan year.  As a member of OSAG, the District is
required to pay fees set by OSAG according to an established payment schedule.  A portion
of the fees paid by the District goes into a loss fund for the District.  The fee for the loss fund
is calculated by projecting losses based on the school’s losses for the last five years.  OSAG
provides coverage in excess of the Loss Fund so the District’s liability for claim loss is
limited to the balance of the loss fund.  If the District does not use its loss fund in three years,
it is returned to the District with no interest.

The District is also a member of the Oklahoma Public Schools Unemployment Compensation
Program.  In this program the District is required to contribute 1.6% of its taxable payroll for
unemployment insurance.  The funds for each District are kept separate and Districts can
contribute more than 1.6% of their payroll if they elect to.  The money contributed by each
District earns interest and is fully insured.  If the District has claims in excess of the amount
in its account, it will be liable for the excess.



35

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-72, BRYAN COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

7. CONTINGENCIES

Federal Grants

Amounts received or receivable from grant agencies are subject to audit and adjustment by
grantor agencies.  Any disallowed claims, including amounts already collected, may
constitute a liability of the applicable funds.  The amounts, if any, of expenditures which may
be disallowed by the grantor cannot be determined at this time, although the District expects
such amounts, if any, to be immaterial.

Schedule of Expenditure of Federal Awards

The schedule shows the federal awards received and expended by the District during the
2017-18 fiscal year. The Uniform Guidance, Audits of States, Local Governments and Non-
Profit Organizations, established uniform audit requirements for nonfederal entities which
expended more than $750,000 in federal awards.

Litigation

School officials are not aware of any pending or threatened litigation, claims or assessments
or unasserted claims or assessments against the District.

8.  LEASE PURCHASE AGREEMENTS

On October 1, 2009, an agreement was entered into between Public Finance Leasing, LLC,
and First United Bank & Trust Company, Durant, Ok, to issue certificates of participation
evidencing proportional interests in rental payments to be made pursuant to a lease purchase
agreement between Public Finance Leasing, LLC and the Independent School District No.
72, Bryan County (Durant Public Schools) in the form of $39,015,000 Series 2009A Bonds
and $1,195,000 Series 2009B Bonds, to provide funds for the purpose of constructing and
equipping a new high school. Also, the City of Durant passed a sales tax to assist in the
repayment of the certificates of participation. The following is a schedule of rental payments
for the two issues.



36

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-72, BRYAN COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

8.  LEASE PURCHASE AGREEMENTS – cont’d

Series 2009A  $39,015,000

Year Principal Interest Total

15-16 700,000 1,519,189 2,219,189
16-17 785,000 1,497,076 2,282,076
17-18 875,000 1,470,790 2,345,790
18-19 980,000 1,439,744 2,419,744
19-20 1,085,000 1,403,882 2,488,882
20-21 1,200,000 1,363,457 2,563,457
21-22 1,325,000 1,317,967 2,642,967
22-23 1,460,000 1,263,452 2,723,452
23-24 1,610,000 1,199,259 2,809,259
24-25 1,765,000 1,127,910 2,892,910
25-26 1,935,000 1,049,096 2,984,096
26-27 2,120,000 962,723 3,082,723
27-28 2,310,000 868,362 3,178,362
28-29 2,515,000 765,587 3,280,587
29-30 2,735,000 653,759 3,388,759
30-31 2,970,000 529,826 3,499,826
31-32 3,220,000 392,947 3,612,947
32-33 3,490,000 244,569 3,734,569
33-34 3,785,000 83,697 3,868,697

Totals 36,865,000 19,153,292 56,018,292



37

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-72, BRYAN COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

8.  LEASE PURCHASE AGREEMENTS – cont’d

Series 2009B $1,195,000

Year Principal Interest Total

15-16 55,000 59,330 114,330
16-17 55,000 65,693 120,693
17-18 60,000 51,890 111,890
18-19 65,000 47,759 112,759
19-20 70,000 43,298 113,298
20-21 75,000 38,504 113,504
21-22 75,000 33,544 108,544
22-23 80,000 28,422 108,422
23-24 90,000 22,805 112,805
24-25 95,000 16,689 111,689
25-26 100,000 10,244 110,244
26-27 105,000 3,470 108,470

Totals 925,000 421,648 1,346,648



#32 BOND #33 BOND #34 BOND #35 BOND #36 BOND TOTAL
FUND FUND FUND FUND FUND FUND

ASSETS

Cash 75$ 1,378 408,946 3,044,186 535,014 3,989,599

LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCE

Liabilities:
   Warrants payable $ 41,376 220,738 262,114

Fund Balance:
   Restricted 75 1,378 367,570 2,823,448 535,014 3,727,485

Total Liabilities and Fund Balance 75$ 1,378 408,946 3,044,186 535,014 3,989,599

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-72, BRYAN COUNTY
COMBINING STATEMENT OF ASSETS, LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCE -

ALL CAPITAL PROJECTS FUNDS - REGULATORY BASIS
JUNE 30, 2018

38



#32 BOND #33 BOND #34 BOND #35 BOND #36 BOND
FUND FUND FUND FUND FUND TOTAL

Revenues Collected:
   Interest $                   0 0 59 2,183 0 2,242

Expenditures:
   Instruction 35,402 627,824 663,226
   Support services 288,887 353,284 682,720
   Facilities acquisition & constr. services 78,036 332,070 410,106
   Private nonprofit schools 5,114 5,114
     Total expenditures 0 0 402,325 1,318,292 0 1,761,166

Excess of revenues collected over
   (under) expenditures before other
   financing sources (uses) 0 0 (402,266) (1,316,109) 0 (1,758,924)

Other financing sources (uses):
   Bond proceeds 0 0 3,800 2,930,114 535,000 3,468,914

Excess of revenues collected over
   (under) expenditures 0 0 (398,466) 1,614,005 535,000 1,709,990

Cash fund balances, beginning of year 75 1,378 766,036 1,209,443 14 2,017,495

Cash fund balances, end of year 75 1,378 367,570 2,823,448 535,014 3,727,485

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-72, BRYAN COUNTY
COMBINING STATEMENT OF REVENUES COLLECTED, EXPENDITURES AND CHANGES

IN CASH FUND BALANCES - ALL CAPITAL PROJECTS FUNDS - REGULATORY BASIS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

39



BALANCE NET BALANCE
7-01-17 ADDITIONS TRANSFERS DEDUCTIONS 6-30-18

717,263$ 1,013,115 0 912,716 817,662

Academic bowl DHS 111$ 0 0 111
Annual DHS 13,438 11,691 10,061 15,068
Athletiics DHS 24,284 151,741 142,756 33,269
Chorus DHS 3,664 11,123 12,870 1,917
FFA Booster club 15,033 564 14,109 1,488
Softball DHS 7,088 18,494 19,924 5,658
Cheerleader DHS 8,029 18,122 16,522 9,629
Concessions sodexo 2,886 0 0 2,886
DECA DHS 16,279 8,358 5,220 19,417
Art Club DHS 982 323 381 924
BPA DHS 239 1,685 999 925
FCA DHS 491 0 50 441
FFA Chapter DHS 12,651 95,404 80,456 27,599
FCCLA DHS 707 1,080 925 862
General activity DHS 19,544 12,601 18,015 14,130
HOSA FFA 899 13,498 14,156 241
Bourne memorial SCO 2,136 2,350 1,000 3,486
Key club DHS 844 900 918 826
Library DHS 960 3,892 3,849 1,003
Newspaper DHS 87 75 125 37
Spanish club DHS 319 0 0 319
Speech and drama club DHS 2,818 13,865 15,675 1,008
Student council DHS 4,616 16,580 18,557 2,639
Netbooks DHS 7,019 2,759 0 9,778
Clearing DHS 0 20,311 20,311 0
Football parents DHS 1,381 5,781 3,011 4,151
Awards DHS 1,480 2,695 2,434 1,741
Grapplers DHS 1,872 3,324 3,874 1,322
Media Productions 377 0 280 97
Youth and government 18 0 0 18
Vision academy 4,332 355 1,463 3,224

LIABILITIES

 INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-72, BRYAN COUNTY
COMBINING STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN ASSETS AND LIABILITIES -

AGENCY FUNDS - REGULATORY BASIS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

ASSETS

Cash and Investments

Funds held for school organizations:

40



BALANCE NET BALANCE
7-01-17 ADDITIONS TRANSFERS DEDUCTIONS 6-30-18

Baseball DHS 6,744$ 13,059 16,240 3,563
Softball DMS 53 0 0 53
Emergency DMS 839 0 50 789
Special DMS 21,957 19,184 16,265 24,876
Annual DMS 927 2,122 2,926 123
Athletiics DMS 18,870 39,816 33,872 24,814
Band DMS 1,434 24 0 1,458
Library DMS 2,349 3,212 3,441 2,120
Choir DMS 1,170 34,964 36,048 86
Cheerleader DMS 1,470 7,270 6,314 2,426
Flower fund DMS 637 664 469 832
Sudent council DMS 5,364 9,311 8,592 6,083
TSA assosiation DMS 248 0 33 215
Netbooks DMS 6,129 576 200 6,505
General activity NWH 54,366 86,299 81,781 58,884
PSO NWH 19,480 23,488 22,162 20,806
Clearing NWH 0 128 128 0
Music NWH 1,131 1,850 1,601 1,380
General activity WI 69,002 36,729 31,963 73,768
PTSO WI 46,697 56,289 46,492 56,494
Library WI 294 13,170 13,171 293
Music WI 2,308 1,335 802 2,841
Cindy Brisco memorial 1,499 0 0 1,499
Undesignated 200 0 0 200
General activity REL 29,911 12,851 13,489 29,273
Administrative activity 15,487 433 1,952 13,968
Flower fund admin. 167 0 155 12
Professional development 3,888 0 0 3,888
Student assistance 1,126 2,393 1,380 2,139
District wide activity 78,247 28,622 18,740 88,129
Video duplication 226 100 223 103
Choctaw / misc. donations 31,152 42,791 12,008 61,935
Teacher of the year 0 1,750 1,750 0
Durant schools elem. summer 2,759 0 823 1,936
Dist. special act. 53,135 60,894 49,029 65,000
DIS band 1,299 1,876 2,120 1,055

AGENCY FUNDS - REGULATORY BASIS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

COMBINING STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN ASSETS AND LIABILITIES -
 INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-72, BRYAN COUNTY

41



BALANCE NET BALANCE
7-01-17 ADDITIONS TRANSFERS DEDUCTIONS 6-30-18

DIS flower fund 1,389$ 980 912 1,457
DIS library 13,799 13,265 11,736 15,328
DIS. PSO 13,089 6,589 3,140 16,538
DIS annual 13,706 2,675 3,239 13,142
DIS clearing 0 150 150 0
DIS student council 598 0 0 598
Watch D.O.G.S 595 12,089 997 11,687
DIS greenhouse 4,802 1,580 1,117 5,265
DIS circle the state choir 4,300 8,838 8,388 4,750
DIS box tops 3,758 187 2,516 1,429
Goddard youth camp 25,893 47,991 48,361 25,523
Magic triad 185 0 0 185

Total Liabilities 717,263$ 1,013,115 0 912,716 817,662

 INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-72, BRYAN COUNTY
COMBINING STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN ASSETS AND LIABILITIES -

AGENCY FUNDS - REGULATORY BASIS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

42



Federal Grantor / Pass Through CFDA Federal Grantor's/ Program or Balance at Revenue Total Balance at
Grantor / Program Title Number Pass-through No. Award Amount 7/1/17 Collected Expenditures 6/30/18

U.S. Department of Education
Direct Programs:
    Indian Education 84.060 S060A172163 206,509$ 0 206,419 206,419 0

Passed Through State Department of Education:
    Title I, Basic Program 84.010 S010A170036 890,159 391,741 768,758 377,017
    Title I, Basic Program  2016-17 - Note 84.010 450,785 450,785
    Title I, Delinquent 84.010 S010A170036 11,102 5,790 5,790
    Title II, Part A 84.367 S367A170035 218,922 72,022 105,316 33,294
    Title II, Part A 2016-17 - Note 84.367 29,228 29,228
    Title III, Part A English Language 84.365 S365A170036 31,930 12,007 13,483 1,476
    Title III, Part A English Language 2016-17 - Note 84.365 1,564 1,564
    Title VI, Part B 84.358 S358B170036 131,333 26,088 36,368 10,280
    Title VI, Part B 2016-17 - Note 84.358 38,590 38,590
   *Special Education Programs:
       IDEA-B Flowthrough 84.027 H027A170051 881,297 124,571 734,117 609,547
       IDEA-B Flowthrough 2016-17 - Note 84.027 388,721 388,721
       IDEA-B Preschool 84.173 H173A170084 22,560 22,560 22,560
       IDEA-B Preschool 2016-17 - Note 84.173 8,704 8,704
       IDEA-B Professional Development 84.027 H027A170051 4,128 2,263 2473
       IDEA-B Professional Development 84.027 H027A170051 9,600 9,600 9600
       IDEA-B Private 84.027 H027A170051 3,436 1,073 3,436 2363
          Sub Total 2,204,467 917,592 1,550,884 1,701,691 1,068,610

Passed Through State Department of Career & Tech. Education:
    Carl Perkins 84.048 53,552 28,853 52,259 23,407
    Carl Perkins 2016-17 - Note 84.048 23,689 23,689
    Carl Perkins  High Schools That Work 84.048 8,500 5,265 8,323 3,058
    Carl Perkins  High Schools That Work 2016-17 - Note 84.048 8,500 8,500
        Sub Total 62,052 32,189 66,307 60,582 26,465

U.S. Department of Agriculture:
Passed Through State Department of Education

 *Child Nutrition Programs:
    School breakfast program 10.553 356,669 254,269 102,400
    National school lunch program 10.555 122,959 967,632 912,352 178,239
    Summer food program 10.559 10,606 23,047 8,589 25,064
    Child & Adult Care food program 10.558 3,340 34,249 18,961 18,628
        Sub Total 136,905 1,381,597 1,194,171 324,331

Passed Through Department of Human Services:
 *Non-cash assistance - commodities - Note 3
      National school lunch program 10.555 134,331 134,331

U.S. Department of Health and Human Services:
Direct Programs:
    Safe and Drug Free School 93.276 27,583 27,583 27,583
    Safe and Drug Free School 2016-17 - Note 93.276 16,184 16,184
        Sub Total 27,583 16,184 43,767 27,583 0

Other Federal Assistance:
    Johnson O'Malley 15.130 63,245 38,783 62,810 24,027
    Johnson O'Malley 2016-17 - Note 15.130 8,378 8,378
    Rehabilitation services 84.126 16,913 13,663 16,913
    Gear up 84.334 11,574 11,146 11,574
    Flood control 12.113 1,014 1,014 1,014
        Sub Total 92,746 8,378 72,984 92,311 24,027

Total Federal Assistance 2,593,357$ 1,111,248 3,456,289 3,417,088 1,443,433

Note - These amounts represent reimbursements for prior year expenditures which were not received until the current fiscal year.

Note 1 - Basis of Presentation - The accompanying schedule of expenditures of federal awards includes the federal activity of the District  for the year ended June 30, 2018. This
information is presented in accordance with the requirements of Title 2 U.S. Code of Federal Regulations Part 200, Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and
Audit Requirements for Federal Awards (Uniform Guidance) . Because the schedule presents only a selected portiion of the operations of the District, it is not intended and does
not present the financial position, changes in net assets, or cash flows of the District.

Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies - Expenditiures reported on this schedule are reported on the regulatory basis of accounting consistent with the preparation of
the combined financial statements except as noted in Note 3. Expenditures are recognized following the cost principles contained in the Uniform Guidance, wherein certain types
of expenditures are not allowable or are limited as to reimbursement.  The District has elected not to use the 10 percent de minimus indirect cost rate allowed under the Uniform Guidance.

Note 3 - Non-Monetary Assistance - Commodities received by the District in the amount of  $134,331 were of a non-monetary nature and therefore the total revenue does not
agree with the financial statements

* Major programs

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-72, BRYAN COUNTY
SCHEDULE OF EXPENDITURES OF FEDERAL AWARDS - REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

43



POSITION BOND COVERAGE
BONDING COMPANY COVERED NUMBER AMOUNT EFFECTIVE DATES

Jordan Hoefer Agency
Old Republic Surety- Treasurer LPO2012361 100,000$ 7/01/17 - 7/01/18

Superintendent LPO2111756 100,000 7/01/17 - 7/01/18
Encumbrance clerk W150106845 100,000 9/01/17 - 9/01/18

RLI Surety- Activity Fund/Minutes clerk LSM0374411 100,000 7/01/17 - 7/01/18
Child Nutrition cashiers RSB8007085 90,000 9/01/17 - 9/01/18
School Secretaries RSB8007085 80,000 9/01/17 - 9/01/18
Encumbrance clerk LSM0703084 100,000 7/01/17 - 7/01/18
Treasurer LSM0703086 100,000 7/01/17 - 7/01/18
Superintendent LSM0625391 100,000 7/01/17 - 7/01/18

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-72, BRYAN COUNTY
STATEMENT OF STATUTORY, FIDELITY AND HONESTY BONDS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

44




	1- Cover sheets.pdf
	2 -  Independent Auditor's Report-2016.pdf
	2a  Report on Internal control and compliance  in accordance with GAS-2016.pdf
	2b - Report on Compliance for each Major prog and IC by uniform guidance 2016.pdf
	3 - Disposition - prior year reportable conditions.pdf
	3a - Schedule of Audit results, findings and questioned costs.pdf
	4 - Combined Statement of Assets, Liab... all fund types.pdf
	4a - Combined Statement of revenues, expend...govt' fund types.pdf
	4b - Budget to Actual - general fund.pdf
	4c - Budget to Actual - special revenue funds.pdf
	4e - Budget to Actual - debt service fund.pdf
	5 - Notes To Combine Financial Statements  2015.pdf
	6b - All capital projects funds - balance sheet.pdf
	6c - All capital projects funds - income statements.pdf
	6e - Agency fund - balance sheet.pdf
	7 - Schedule of Expenditures of Federal Awards.pdf
	7a - Surety bond coverage schedule.pdf
	8a - Insur and Ltr.pdf

