





























FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS
AND REPORTS OF INDEPENDENT AUDITOR

HOMINY INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO.  I-38,
OSAGE COUNTY, OKLAHOMA

JUNE 30, 2018

Audited by

SANDERS, BLEDSOE & HEWETT
CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS, LLP

BROKEN ARROW, OK



2

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-38, OSAGE COUNTY
SCHOOL DISTRICT OFFICIALS

JUNE 30, 2018

BOARD OF EDUCATION

President

Darrell Brown

Vice-President

Jessica Graham

Clerk

Rhonda Wallace

Member

Fi Davis

Member

Jim Hopper

SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS

Doyle Edwards

MINUTES CLERK

Sara Hensley

SCHOOL DISTRICT TREASURER

Gayla Crenshaw



3

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-38, OSAGE COUNTY
JUNE 30, 2018

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Page No.

School District Officials 2

Table of Contents 3-4

Independent Auditor’s Report 5-6

Independent Auditor’s Report on Internal Control over Financial
Reporting and on Compliance and Other Matters Based
on an Audit of Financial Statements - Regulatory Basis –
Performed in Accordance with Government Auditing Standards 7-8

Independent Auditor’s Report on Compliance for each
Major Program and on Internal Control over Compliance
Required By the Uniform Guidance 9-10

Disposition of Prior Year’s Significant Deficiencies and
Material Instances of Non-Compliance 11

Schedule of Audit Results, Findings and Questioned Cost 12

Combined Financial Statements – Regulatory Basis

Combined Statement of Assets, Liabilities and Fund Balance
– All Fund Types and Account Groups – Regulatory Basis 13

Combined Statement of Revenues Collected, Expenditures and
Changes in Cash Fund Balances – All Governmental Fund Types
– Regulatory Basis 14

Combined Statement of Revenues Collected, Expenditures and
Changes in Cash Fund Balances – Budget and Actual
– Budgeted Governmental Fund Types – Regulatory Basis 15-17

Notes to Combined Financial Statements - Regulatory Basis 18-35



4

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-38, OSAGE COUNTY
JUNE 30, 2018

Page No.

Combining Financial Statements – Regulatory Basis

Combining Statement of Assets, Liabilities and Fund Equity
– All Capital Projects Funds – All Regulatory Basis 36

Combining Statement of Revenues Collected, Expenditures and
Changes in Cash Fund Balances – All Capital Projects Funds
– Regulatory Basis 37

Combining Statement of Changes in Assets and Liabilities
– All Agency Funds – Regulatory Basis 38

Schedule of Expenditures of Federal Awards – Regulatory Basis 39

Schedule of Statutory, Fidelity and Honesty Bonds 40

Schedule of Accountant’s Professional Liability Insurance Affidavit 41



5

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT

October 18, 2018

The Honorable Board of Education
Hominy School District Number I-38
Hominy, Osage County, Oklahoma

Report on the Financial Statements

We have audited the accompanying combined fund type and account group financial statements – regulatory basis of the
Hominy School District Number I-38, Hominy, Osage County, Oklahoma (the District), as of and for the year ended June 30,
2018, and the related notes to the financial statements, which collectively comprise the District’s basic financial statements as
listed in the table of contents.

Management’s Responsibility for the Financial Statements

Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance with financial
reporting provisions of the Oklahoma State Department of Education to meet financial reporting requirements of the State of
Oklahoma; this includes determining that the regulatory basis of accounting is an acceptable basis for the preparation of the
financial statements in the circumstances.  Management is also responsible for the design, implementation, and maintenance of
internal control relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements that are free from material
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

Auditor’s Responsibility

Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit.  We conducted our audit in
accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America, and the standards applicable to
financial audits contained in Government Auditing Standards, issued by the Comptroller General of the United States.  Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free from material misstatement.

An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements.  The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material
misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.  In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers
internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit
procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of
the entity’s internal control.  Accordingly, we express no such opinion.  An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness
of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements.

We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinions.

Basis for Adverse Opinion on U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles

As discussed in Note 1, the financial statements are prepared by the District, on the basis of the financial reporting provisions
of the Oklahoma State Department of Education, which is a basis of accounting other than accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America, to comply with the requirements of the Oklahoma State Department of Education.
The effects on the financial statements of the variances between the regulatory basis of accounting described in Note 1 and
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, although not reasonable determined, are presumed to
be material.



6

Adverse Opinion on U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles

In our opinion, because the significance of the matter discussed in the “Basis for Adverse Opinion on U.S. Generally Accepted
Accounting Principles” paragraph, the financial statements referred to in the first paragraph do not present fairly, in accordance
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, the financial position of the District as of June
30, 2018, the changes in its financial position, or, where applicable, its cash flows for the year then ended.

Basis for Qualified Opinion on Regulatory Basis of Accounting

The financial statements referred to above do not include the general fixed asset account group, which is a departure from the
regulatory basis of accounting prescribed by the Oklahoma State Department of Education.  The amount that should be
recorded in the general fixed asset account group is not known.

Qualified Opinion on Regulatory Basis of Accounting

In our opinion, except for the effects of the matter described in the “Basis for Qualified Opinion on Regulatory Basis of
Accounting” paragraph, the financial statements referred to in the first paragraph present fairly, in all material respects, the
assets, liabilities and fund balance arising from regulatory basis transactions of each fund type and account group of the
District, as of June 30, 2018, and the revenues collected and expenditures paid and encumbered for the year then ended on the
regulatory basis of accounting described in Note 1.

Other Matters

Our audit was conducted for the purpose of forming opinions on the financial statements that collectively comprise the
District’s basic financial statements.  The combining statements – regulatory basis, are presented for purposes of additional
analysis and are not a required part of the basic financial statements.  The schedule of expenditures of federal awards is
presented for purposes of additional analysis as required by Title 2 U.S. Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) Part 200, Uniform
Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards, and is also not a required part of
the basic financial statements.

The combining statements – regulatory basis and the schedule of expenditures of federal awards are the responsibility of
management and were derived from and relate directly to the underlying accounting and other records used to prepare the basic
financial statements.  Such information has been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the audit of the basic financial
statements and certain additional procedures, including comparing and reconciling such information directly to the underlying
accounting and other records used to prepare the basic financial statements or to the basic financial statements themselves, and
other additional procedures in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America.  In our
opinion, the combining statements – regulatory basis and the schedule of expenditures of federal awards are fairly stated in all
material respects in relation to the basic financial statements as a whole.

Other Reporting required by Government Auditing Standards

In accordance with Government Auditing Standards, we have also issued our report dated October 18, 2018 on our
consideration of the District’s internal control over financial reporting and on our tests of its compliance with certain provisions
of laws, regulations, contracts and grant agreements and other matters.  The purpose of that report is to describe the scope of
our testing of internal control over financial reporting and compliance and the results of that testing, and not to provide an
opinion on the internal control over financial reporting or on compliance.  That report is an integral part of an audit performed
in accordance with Government Auditing Standards in considering the District’s internal control over financial reporting and
compliance.

Sanders, Bledsoe & Hewett
Certified Public Accountants, LLP

Broken Arrow, OK



7

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING
AND ON COMPLIANCE AND OTHER MATTERS BASED ON AN AUDIT OF FINANCIAL

STATEMENTS PERFORMED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
GOVERNMENT AUDITING STANDARDS

October 18, 2018

The Honorable Board of Education
Hominy School District Number I-38
Hominy, Osage County, Oklahoma

We have audited in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America and the
standards applicable to financial audits contained in Government Auditing Standards, issued by the Comptroller General of
the United States, the accompanying fund type and account group financial statements – regulatory basis within the
combined financial statements of the Hominy School District Number I-38, Hominy, Osage County, Oklahoma (District),
as of and for the year ended June 30, 2018, and the related notes to the financial statements, which collectively comprise the
District’s basic financial statements, and have issued our report thereon dated October 18, 2018, which was adverse with
respect to the presentation of the financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States because the presentation followed the regulatory basis of accounting for Oklahoma school districts and did
not conform to the presentation requirements of the Governmental Accounting Standards Board.  However, our report was
qualified for the omission of the general fixed asset account group with respect to the presentation of financial statements
on the regulatory basis of accounting authorized by the Oklahoma State Board of Education.

Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

In planning and performing our audit of the financial statements, we considered the District’s internal control over financial
reporting (internal control) to determine the audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances for the purpose of
expressing our opinions on the financial statements, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of
District’s internal control.  Accordingly, we do not express an opinion on the effectiveness of District’s internal control.

A deficiency in internal control exists when the design or operation of a control does not allow management or employees,
in the normal course of performing their assigned functions, to prevent, or detect and correct, misstatements on a timely
basis.  A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control, such that there is a
reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the entity’s financial statements will not be prevented, or detected and
corrected on a timely basis.  A significant deficiency is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control
that is less severe than a material weakness, yet important enough to merit attention by those charged with governance.

Our consideration of internal control was for the limited purpose described in the first paragraph of this section and was not
designed to identify all deficiencies in internal control that might be material weaknesses or, significant deficiencies.  Given
these limitations, during our audit we did not identify any deficiencies in internal control that we consider to be material
weaknesses.  However, material weaknesses may exist that have not been identified.



8

Compliance and Other Matters

As part of obtaining reasonable assurance about whether the District’s financial statements are free of material
misstatement, we performed tests of its compliance with certain provisions of laws, regulations, contracts, and grant
agreements, non-compliance with which could have a direct and material effect on the determination of financial statements
amounts.  However, providing an opinion on compliance with those provisions was not an objective of our audit, and
accordingly, we do not express such an opinion.  The results of our tests disclosed no instances of noncompliance or other
matters that are required to be reported under Government Auditing Standards.

Purpose of this Report

The purpose of this report is solely to describe the scope of our testing of internal control and compliance and the results of
that testing, and not to provide an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control or on compliance.  This report
is an integral part of an audit performed in accordance with Government Auditing Standards in considering the entity’s
internal control and compliance.  Accordingly, this communication is not suitable for any other purpose.

Sanders, Bledsoe & Hewett
Certified Public Accountants, LLP

Broken Arrow, OK



9

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT ON COMPLIANCE FOR EACH MAJOR PROGRAM AND ON
INTERNAL CONTROL OVER COMPLIANCE REQUIRED

BY THE UNIFORM GUIDANCE

October 18, 2018

The Honorable Board of Education
Hominy School District Number I-38
Hominy, Osage County, Oklahoma

Report on Compliance for Each Major Federal Program

We have audited Hominy School District Number I-38, Hominy, Osage County, Oklahoma (District)’s, compliance with
the types of compliance requirements described in the OMB Compliance Supplement that could have a direct and material
effect on each of the District’s major federal programs for the year ended June 30, 2018.  The District’s major federal
programs are identified in the summary of auditor’s results section of the accompanying schedule of findings and
questioned costs.

Management’s Responsibility

Management is responsible for compliance with the requirements of laws, regulations, contracts, and grants applicable to its
federal programs.

Auditor’s Responsibility

Our responsibility is to express an opinion on compliance for each of the District’s major federal programs based on our
audit of the types of compliance requirements referred to above.  We conducted our audit of compliance in accordance with
auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America; the standards applicable to financial audits contained
in Government Auditing Standards, issued by the Comptroller General of the United States, and the audit requirements of
Title 2 U.S. Code of Federal Regulations Part 200, Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit
Requirements for Federal Awards (Uniform Guidance). Those standards and Uniform Guidance require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether noncompliance with the types of compliance requirements
referred to above that could have a direct and material effect on a major federal program occurred.  An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence about the District’s compliance with those requirements and performing such other
procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.

We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion on compliance for each major federal program.
However, our audit does not provide a legal determination of the District’s compliance.

Opinion on Each Major Federal Program

In our opinion. the District, complied, in all material respects with the types of compliance requirements referred to above
that could have a direct and material effect on each of its major federal programs for the year ended June 30, 2018.



10

Report on Internal Control Over Compliance

Management of the District, is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over compliance with
the types of compliance requirements referred to above.  In planning and performing our audit of compliance, we
considered the District’s internal control over compliance with the types of requirements that could have a direct and
material effect on each major federal program to determine the auditing procedures that are appropriate in the
circumstances for the purpose of expressing an opinion on compliance for each major federal program and to test and report
on internal control over compliance in accordance with Uniform Guidance, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion
on the effectiveness of internal control over compliance.  Accordingly, we do not express an opinion on the effectiveness of
the District’s internal control over compliance.

A deficiency in internal control over compliance exists when the design or operation of a control over compliance does not
allow management or employees, in the normal course of performing their assigned functions to prevent or detect and
correct, noncompliance with a type of compliance requirement of a federal program on a timely basis.  A material weakness
in internal control over compliance is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over compliance, such
that there is a reasonable possibility that material noncompliance with a type of compliance requirement of a federal
program will not be prevented, or defected and corrected, on a timely basis.  A significant deficiency in internal control over
compliance is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over compliance with a type of compliance
requirement of a federal program that is less severe than a material weakness in internal control over compliance, yet
important enough to merit attention by those charged with governance.

Our consideration of internal control over compliance was the limited purpose described in the first paragraph of this
section and was not designed to identify all deficiencies in internal control over compliance that might be material
weaknesses or significant deficiencies.  We did not identify any deficiencies in internal control over compliance that we
consider to be material weaknesses.  However, material weaknesses may exist that have not been identified.

The purpose of this report on internal control over compliance is solely to describe the scope of our testing of internal
control over compliance and the results of that testing based on the requirements of the Uniform Guidance.  Accordingly,
this report is not suitable for any other purpose.

Sanders, Bledsoe & Hewett
Certified Public Accountants, LLP

Broken Arrow, OK



11

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-38, OSAGE COUNTY
DISPOSITION OF PRIOR YEAR’S SIGNIFICANT DEFICIENCIES AND

MATERIAL INSTANCES OF NON-COMPLIANCE
JUNE 30, 2018

There were no prior year significant deficiencies.



12

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-38, OSAGE COUNTY
SCHEDULE OF AUDIT RESULTS, FINDINGS AND QUESTIONED COSTS

JUNE 30, 2018

Section 1 – Summary of Auditor’s Results:

1. An adverse opinion on the combined financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles and a qualified opinion for the omission of
the general fixed asset account group on the combined financial statements in
conformity with a regulatory basis of accounting prescribed by the Oklahoma State
Department of Education.

2. The audit disclosed no significant deficiencies in the internal controls, over financial
reporting.

3. The audit disclosed no instances of noncompliance which are material to the financial
statements.

4. The audit disclosed no significant deficiencies in the internal controls over major
programs.

5. An unmodified opinion report was issued on the compliance of major programs.

6. The audit disclosed no audit findings which are required to be reported under
Uniform Guidance.

7. Programs determined to be major are the Child Nutrition Programs (10.553, 10.555,
10.559), and the Title I programs (84.010, 84.011) which were clustered in
determination.

8. The dollar threshold used to determine between Type A and Type B programs was
$750,000.

9. The auditee was determined not to be a low-risk auditee.

Section 2 – Findings relating to the financial statements required to be reported in
accordance with GAGAS:

NONE

Section 3 – Findings and questioned costs for federal awards:

NONE



FIDUCIARY ACCOUNT
FUND TYPES GROUP

GENERAL TOTALS
SPECIAL CAPITAL DEBT AGENCY LONG-TERM (MEMORANDUM

GENERAL REVENUE PROJECTS SERVICE FUNDS DEBT ONLY)
ASSETS

Cash 1,380,153$ 452,790 2,338 121,783 261,824 2,218,888
Investments 32,731 32,731
Amounts available in debt service 121,783 121,783
Amount to be provided for retirement
    of long-term debt 1,778,217 1,778,217

Total Assets 1,380,153$ 452,790 2,338 121,783 294,555 1,900,000 4,151,619

LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCE

Liabilities:
    Warrants payable 358,378$ 26,385 964 385,727
    Funds held for school organizations 294,555 294,555
    Long-term debt:
      Bonds payable 1,900,000 1,900,000
          Total liabilities 358,378 26,385 964                                      0 294,555 1,900,000 2,580,282

Fund Balance:
   Unassigned 1,021,775 1,021,775
   Restricted 426,405 1,374 121,783 549,562
     Fund balances 1,021,775 426,405 1,374 121,783 0 0 1,571,337

Total Liabilities and Fund Balance 1,380,153$ 452,790 2,338 121,783 294,555 1,900,000 4,151,619

The notes to the combined financial statements are an integral part of this statement

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-38, OSAGE COUNTY
COMBINED STATEMENT OF ASSETS, LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCE -

ALL FUND TYPES AND ACCOUNT GROUPS - REGULATORY BASIS
JUNE 30, 2018

GOVERNMENTAL FUND TYPES

13



GOVERNMENTAL FUND TYPES
TOTALS

SPECIAL CAPITAL DEBT (MEMORANDUM
GENERAL REVENUE PROJECTS SERVICE ONLY)

Revenues Collected:
    Local sources 916,321$ 119,630 548,988 1,584,939
    Intermediate sources 155,641 155,641
    State sources 2,582,491 2 10 2,582,503
    Federal sources 969,907 969,907
    Interest earnings 8,701 9,358 262 150 18,471
    Non-revenue receipts 90 90
        Total revenues collected 4,633,151 128,990 262 549,148 5,311,551

Expenditures:
    Instruction 2,473,288 2,473,288
    Support services 1,831,000 57,273 1,888,273
    Operation of non-instructional services 228,139 228,139
    Facilities acquisition & construction services 26,930 482,404 509,334
    Other outlays-
        Reimbursement 90 90
        Debt service requirements 544,956 544,956
          Total expenditures 4,532,517 84,203 482,404 544,956 5,644,080

Excess of revenues collected
   over (under) expenditures before
   other financing sources (uses) 100,634 44,787 (482,142) 4,192 (332,529)

Other financing sources (uses):
   Bond proceeds 240,000 240,000
   Adjustments to prior encumbrances 13 13
      Total other financing sources (uses) 13 0 240,000 0 240,013

Excess of revenue collected over
   (under) expenditures 100,647 44,787 (242,142) 4,192 (92,516)

Cash fund balances, beginning of year 921,128 381,618 243,516 117,591 1,663,853

Cash fund balances, end of year 1,021,775$ 426,405 1,374 121,783 1,571,337

The notes to the combined financial statements are an integral part of this statement

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-38, OSAGE COUNTY
COMBINED STATEMENT OF REVENUES COLLECTED, EXPENDITURES AND CHANGES IN CASH FUND BALANCES

 - ALL GOVERNMENTAL FUND TYPES - REGULATORY BASIS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

14



Variance
Original Final Favorable
Budget Budget Actual (Unfavorable)

Revenues Collected:
   Local sources 772,902$ 772,902 916,321 143,419
   Intermediate sources 134,476 134,476 155,641 21,165
   State sources 2,575,837 2,575,837 2,582,491 6,654
   Federal sources 224,687 529,238 969,907 440,669
   Interest earnings 8,701 8,701
   Non-revenue receipts 90 90
       Total revenues collected 3,707,902 4,012,453 4,633,151 620,698

Expenditures:
   Instruction 2,518,835 2,823,386 2,473,288 350,098
   Support services 1,832,547 1,832,547 1,831,000 1,547
   Operation of non-instructional services 277,558 277,558 228,139 49,419
   Other outlays:
      Reimbursement 90 90 90
           Total expenditures 4,629,030 4,933,581 4,532,517 401,064

Excess of revenues collected
   over (under) expenditures before
   adjustments to prior year encumbrances (921,128) (921,128) 100,634 1,021,762

Adjustments to prior year encumbrances 0 0 13 13

Excess of revenue collected over
   (under) expenditures (921,128) (921,128) 100,647 1,021,775

Cash fund balance, beginning of year 921,128 921,128 921,128 0

Cash fund balance, end of year $                       0                         0 1,021,775 1,021,775

The notes to the combined financial statements are an integral part of this statement

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-38, OSAGE COUNTY
COMBINED STATEMENT OF REVENUES COLLECTED, EXPENDITURES AND

CHANGES IN CASH FUND BALANCES - BUDGET AND ACTUAL -
BUDGETED GOVERNMENTAL FUND TYPES - REGULATORY BASIS

GENERAL FUND

15



Variance
Original/Final Favorable

Budget Actual (Unfavorable)
Revenues Collected:
   Local sources 107,216$ 119,630 12,414
   State sources 2 2
   Interest earnings 9,358 9,358
       Total revenues collected 107,216 128,990 21,774

Expenditures:
   Support services 459,912 57,273 402,639
   Facilities acquisition & construction services 28,922 26,930 1,992
       Total expenditures 488,834 84,203 404,631

Excess of revenues collected
   over (under) expenditures (381,618) 44,787 426,405

Cash fund balance, beginning of year 381,618 381,618 0

Cash fund balance, end of year $                         0 426,405 426,405

The notes to the combined financial statements are an integral part of this statement

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-38, OSAGE COUNTY
COMBINED STATEMENT OF REVENUES COLLECTED, EXPENDITURES AND

CHANGES IN CASH FUND BALANCES - BUDGET AND ACTUAL -
BUDGETED GOVERNMENTAL FUND TYPES - REGULATORY BASIS

SPECIAL REVENUE FUNDS (Building Fund)

16



DEBT SERVICE FUND
Variance

Original/Final Favorable
Budget Actual (Unfavorable)

Revenues Collected:
   Local sources 518,342$ 548,988 30,646
   State sources 10 10
   Interest earnings 150 150
       Total revenues collected 518,342 549,148 30,806

Requirements:
   Bonds 492,500 505,000 (12,500)
   Coupons 39,813 39,956 (143)
          Total expenditures 532,313 544,956 (12,643)

Excess of revenues collected
   over (under) expenditures (13,971) 4,192 18,163

Cash fund balance, beginning of year 117,591 117,591 0

Cash fund balance, end of year 103,620$ 121,783 18,163

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

The notes to the combined financial statements are an integral part of this statement

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-38, OSAGE COUNTY
COMBINED STATEMENT OF REVENUES COLLECTED, EXPENDITURES AND

CHANGES IN CASH FUND BALANCES - BUDGET AND ACTUAL -
BUDGETED GOVERNMENTAL FUND TYPES - REGULATORY BASIS

17



18

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-38, OSAGE COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

The accompanying financial statements of the Hominy Public Schools Independent District,
No. I-38 (the “District”), have been prepared in conformity with another comprehensive basis
of accounting prescribed by the Oklahoma State Department of Education as authorized by
Oklahoma Statutes. Accordingly, the accompanying financial statements are not intended to
present financial positon and results of operations in conformity with the accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The District’s accounting
policies are described in the following notes that are an integral part of the District’s financial
statements.

A. Reporting Entity

The District is a corporate body for public purposes created under Title 70 of the Oklahoma
Statutes and accordingly is a separate entity for operating and financial reporting purposes.
The District is part of the public school system of Oklahoma under the general direction and
control of the State Board of Education and is financially dependent on State of Oklahoma
support.  The general operating authority for the public school system is the Oklahoma
School Code contained in Title 70, Oklahoma Statutes.

The governing body of the District is the Board of Education composed of five elected
members.  The appointed superintendent is the executive officer of the District. The Board,
constituting an on-going entity, is the level of government, which has governance
responsibilities over all activities, related to public elementary and secondary school
education within the jurisdiction of the local independent school district. The District
receives funding from local, state and federal government sources and must comply with the
requirements of these funding source entities. However, the District is not included in any
other governmental “reporting entity” as defined in Section 2100, Codification of
Governmental Accounting and Financial Reporting Standards, since Board members are
elected by the public and have decision making authority, the power to designate
management, the responsibility to significantly influence operations and primary
accountability for fiscal matters.

In evaluating how to define the District, for financial reporting purposes, management has
considered all potential component units. The decision to include a potential component unit
in the reporting entity was made by applying the criteria established by the Governmental
Accounting Standards Board (GASB).  The basic – but not the only – criterion for including
a potential component unit within the reporting entity is the governing body’s ability to
exercise oversight responsibility.  The most significant manifestation of this ability is
financial interdependency.  Other manifestations of the ability to exercise oversight
responsibility include, but are not limited to, the selection of governing authority, the
designation of management, the ability to significantly influence operations and
accountability for fiscal matters.  A second criterion used in evaluating potential component
units is the scope of public service.  Application of this criterion involves considering



19

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-38, OSAGE COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

1.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES – cont’d

A. Reporting Entity – cont’d

whether the activity benefits the District and/or its citizens, or whether the activity is
conducted within the geographic boundaries of the District and is generally available to its
patrons.  A third criterion used to evaluate potential component units for inclusion or
exclusion from the reporting entity is the existence of special financing relationships,
regardless of whether the District is able to exercise oversight responsibilities.  Based upon
the application of these criteria, there are no potential component units included in the
District’s reporting entity.

B. Measurement Focus

The District uses funds and account groups to report on its financial position and the results
of its operations.  Fund accounting is designed to demonstrate legal compliance and to aid
financial management by segregating transactions related to certain District functions or
activities.

A fund is a separate accounting entity with a self-balancing set of accounts.  An account
group, on the other hand, is a financial reporting device designed to provide accountability
for certain assets and liabilities that are not recorded in the funds because they do not directly
affect net expendable available financial resources.

Funds are classified into three categories:  Governmental, proprietary and fiduciary.  Each
category, in turn, is divided into separate “fund types.”

Governmental Fund Types

Governmental funds are used to account for all or most of a government’s general activities,
including the collection and disbursement of earmarked monies (special revenue funds), the
acquisition or construction of general fixed assets (capital projects funds), and the servicing
of general long-term debt (debt service funds).

General Fund – The general fund is used to account for all financial transactions except those
required to be accounted for in another fund. Major revenue sources include state and local
property taxes and state funding under the Foundation and Incentive Aid Program.
Expenditures include all costs associated with the daily operations of the schools except for
programs funded for building repairs and maintenance, school construction and debt service
on bonds and other long-term debt.  The general fund includes federal and state restricted
monies that must be expended for specific programs.



20

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-38, OSAGE COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES – cont’d

B. Measurement Focus - cont’d

Special Revenue Funds – Special revenue funds account for revenue sources that are
restricted to expenditures for specific purposes. The special revenue funds typically include
the building, co-op  and child nutrition funds. The district did not maintain a co-op or child
nutrition fund during the 2017-18 fiscal year.

Building Fund – The building fund consists mainly of monies derived from property
taxes levied for the purpose of erecting, remodeling, repairing, or maintaining school
buildings and for purchasing furniture, equipment and computer software to be used
on or for school district property, for paying energy and utility costs, for purchasing
telecommunications services, for paying fire and casualty insurance premiums for
school facilities, for purchasing security systems, and for paying salaries of security
personnel.

Co-op Fund – The co-op fund is established when the boards of education of two or
more school districts enter into cooperative agreements and maintain joint programs.
The revenues necessary to operate a cooperative program can come from federal,
state, or local sources, including the individual contributions of participating school
districts.  The expenditures for this fund would consist of those necessary to operate
and maintain the joint  programs.

Child Nutrition Fund - The child nutrition fund consists of monies derived from
federal and state financial assistance and food sales.  This fund is used to account for
the various nutrition programs provided to students. The District operates their child
nutrition program within the general fund.

Debt Service Fund – The debt service fund is the District’s sinking fund and is used to
account for the accumulation of financial resources for the payment of general long-term
(including judgments) debt principal, interest and related costs.  The primary revenue sources
are local property taxes levied specifically for debt service and interest earnings from
temporary investments.

Capital Projects Fund – The capital projects fund is the District’s bond fund and is used to
account for the proceeds of bond sales to be used exclusively for acquiring school sites,
constructing and equipping new school facilities, renovating existing facilities and acquiring
transportation equipment.



21

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-38, OSAGE COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES – cont’d

B. Measurement Focus – cont’d

Fiduciary Fund Types

Fiduciary funds are used to account for assets held on behalf of outside parties, including
other governments, or on behalf of other funds within the District.  The terms “non-
expendable” and “expendable” refer to whether or not the District is under an obligation to
maintain the trust principal.  Agency funds generally are used to account for assets that the
District holds on behalf of others as their agent and do not involve measurement of results of
operation.

Expendable Trust Funds – Expendable trust funds typically include the gifts and endowments
fund. The District did not maintain a gifts and endowments fund during the 2017-18 fiscal
year.

Gifts and Endowments Fund – The gifts and endowments fund receives its assets   by
way   of    philanthropic   foundations,   individuals,    or    private organizations for
which no repayment or special service to the contributor is expected. This fund is
used to promote the general welfare of the District.

Agency Fund – The agency fund is the school activities fund which is used to account for
monies collected principally through the fundraising efforts of students and District-
sponsored groups.  The administration is responsible, under the authority of the Board, for
collecting, disbursing and accounting for these activity funds.

Account Groups

An account group is not a fund and consists of a self-balancing set of accounts used only to
establish accounting control over long-term debt and fixed assets.

General Long-Term Debt Account Group – This account group is established to account for
all the long-term debt of the District, which is offset by the amount available in the debt
service fund and the amount to be provided in future years to complete retirement of the debt
principal.  It is also used to account for other liabilities (judgments and lease purchases)
which are to be paid from funds provided in future years.

General Fixed Assets Account Group – This account group is used by governments to
account for the property, plant and equipment of the school district. The District does not
have the information necessary to include this group in its financial statements.



22

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-38, OSAGE COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES – cont’d

B. Measurement Focus – cont’d

Memorandum Only - Total Column

The total column on the combined financial statements – regulatory basis is captioned
“memorandum only” to indicate that it is presented only to facilitate financial analysis.  Data
in this column does not present financial position or results of operations in conformity  with
accounting  principles generally accepted in the United States.  Neither is such data
comparable to a consolidation.  Interfund eliminations have not been made in the aggregation
of this data.

C. Basis of Accounting and Presentation

The District prepares its financial statements in a presentation format that is prescribed by the
Oklahoma State Department of Education. This format is essentially the generally accepted
form of presentation used by state and local governments prior to the effective date of GASB
Statement No. 34, Basic Financial Statements – Management’s Discussion and Analysis for
State and Local Governments with certain modifications. This format differs significantly
from that required by GASB 34.

The financial statements are essentially prepared on the basis of cash receipts and
disbursements modified as required by the regulations of the Oklahoma State Department of
Education as follows:

 Encumbrances represented by purchase orders, contracts, and other commitments for the
expenditure of monies are recorded as expenditures when approved.

 Investments are recorded as assets when purchased.
 Inventories of school supplies are recorded as expenditures and not as inventory assets.
 Warrants payable are recorded as liabilities when issued.
 Long-term debt is recorded in the General Long-Term Debt Account Group and not in

the basic financial statements.
 Compensated absences are recorded as expenditures when paid and not recorded as a

liability.
 Fixed assets are recorded in the General Fixed Asset Account Group and not in the basic

financial statements. Fixed assets are not depreciated.

This regulatory basis of accounting differs from accounting principles generally accepted in
the United States of America, which require revenues to be recognized when they become
available and measurable, or when they are earned, and expenditures or expenses to be
recognized when the related liabilities are incurred for governmental fund types; and, when
revenues are earned.



23

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-38, OSAGE COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES – cont’d

C. Basis of Accounting and Presentation – cont’d

Basis of accounting refers to when revenues and expenditures are recognized in the accounts
and reported in the financial statements. Basis of accounting relates to the timing of the
measurements made, regardless of the measurement focus applied. All governmental type
funds are accounted for using the regulatory basis of accounting.  Revenues are recognized
when they are received rather than earned and expenditures are generally recognized when
encumbered/reserved rather than at the time the related fund liability is incurred.  These
practices differ from accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.

D. Budgets and Budgetary Accounting

The District is required by state law to prepare an annual budget.  A preliminary budget must
be submitted to the Board of Education by December 31, for the fiscal year beginning the
following July 1.  If the preliminary budget requires an additional levy, the District must hold
an election on the first Tuesday in February to approve the levy. If the preliminary budget
does not require an additional levy, it becomes the legal budget.  If an election is held and the
taxes are approved, then the preliminary budget becomes the legal budget.  If voters reject the
additional taxes, the District must adopt a budget within the approved tax rate.

A budget is legally adopted by the Board of Education for all funds (with the exception of the
trust and agency funds) that includes revenues and expenditures.

The 2017-18 Estimate of Needs was amended by supplemental appropriations as follows:

Fund Total

General $ 304,551

This amendment was approved by the county excise board.

Encumbrances represent commitments related to unperformed contracts for goods or
services.  Encumbrance accounting – under which purchase orders and other commitments of
resources are recorded as expenditures of the applicable fund – is utilized in all governmental
funds of the District.  Unencumbered appropriations lapse at the end of each fiscal year.
While the Debt Service Fund is a governmental fund, a comparison of budget to actual
schedule is presented in the financial statements, although the board can exercise no control
of the revenue sources for this fund (except interest earnings), and no control over its
expenditures.



24

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-38, OSAGE COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES – cont’d

E. Assets, Liabilities and Fund Equity

Cash and cash equivalents – The District considers all cash on hand, demand deposit
accounts, and highly liquid investments, with an original maturity of three months or less
when purchased, to be cash and cash equivalents.

Investments – The District considers investments of direct obligations of the United States
government and agencies, certificates of deposits, savings accounts or savings certificates
with maturities of greater than three months. All investments are recorded at cost, which
approximates market value.

Inventories – The value of consumable inventories at June 30, 2018, is not material to the
combined financial statements.

Fixed Assets and Property, Plant and Equipment – The District has not maintained a record
of general fixed assets, and, accordingly, a General Fixed Assets Account Group required by
the regulatory basis of accounting prescribed by the Oklahoma State Department of
Education is not included in the financial statements. General fixed assets purchased are
recorded as expenditures in the various funds at the time of purchase.

Warrants Payable – Warrants are issued to meet the obligations for goods and services
provided to the District.  The District recognizes a liability for the amount of outstanding
warrants that have yet to be redeemed by the District’s treasurer.

Encumbrances – Encumbrances represent commitments related to purchase orders, contracts,
other commitments for expenditures or resources, and goods or services received by the
District for which a warrant has not been issued.  An expenditure is recorded and a liability is
recognized for outstanding encumbrances at year end in accordance with the regulatory basis
of accounting. While the regulatory basis that is used for the Debt Service Fund approximates
full accrual accounting, the accruals recorded are reported to meet regulatory requirements,
as opposed to the requirements of generally accepted accounting principles.

Compensated Absences – The District provides vacation and sick leave benefits in
accordance with Title 70 of the Oklahoma Statutes, Article 6-104, which provides for annual
sick leave and personal business days. District policy allows certified employees to
accumulate such days to a maximum number of days. Vested or accumulated vacation leave
that is expected to be liquidated with expendable available financial resources had not been
reported as an expenditure of the governmental fund that will pay it since the financial
statements have been prepared on the regulatory basis of accounting. This practice differs
from generally accepted accounting principles.



25

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-38, OSAGE COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

1.   SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES – cont’d

E. Assets, Liabilities and Fund Equity – cont’d

Funds Held for School Organizations – Funds held for school organizations represent the
funds received or collected from students or other cocurricular and extracurricular activities
conducted in the District, control over which is exercised by the board of education.  These
funds are credited to the account maintained for the benefit of each particular activity within
the school activity fund.

Long-Term Debt – Long-term debt is recognized as a liability of a governmental fund when
due, or when resources have been accumulated in the debt service fund for payment early in
the following year.  For other long-term obligations, only that portion expected to be financed
from expendable available financial resources is reported as a fund liability of a
governmental fund.  The remaining portion of such obligations is reported in the general
long-term debt account group.

Fund Balance – In the fund financial statements, governmental funds report the hierarchy of
fund balances. The hierarchy is based primarily on the degree of spending constraints placed
upon use of resources for specific purposes versus availability of appropriation. An important
distinction that is made in reporting fund balance is between amounts that are considered
nonspendable (i.e., fund balance associated with assets that are not in spendable form, such
as inventories or prepaid items, long-term portions of loans and notes receivable, or items
that are legally required to be maintained intact (such as the corpus of a permanent fund)) and
those that are spendable (such as fund balance associated with cash, investments or
receivables).

Amount in the spendable fund balance category are further classified as restricted,
committed, assigned or unassigned, as appropriate.

Restricted fund balance represents amounts that are constrained either externally by
creditors (such as debt covenants), grantors, contributors or laws or regulations of other
governments; or by law, through constitutional provisions or enabling legislation.

Committed fund balance represents amounts that are useable only for specific purposes
by formal action of the government’s highest level of decision-making authority. Such
amounts are not subject to legal enforceability (like restricted amounts), but cannot be
used for any other purpose unless the government removes or changes the limitation by
taking action similar to that which imposed the commitment.



26

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-38, OSAGE COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

1.   SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES – cont’d

E. Assets, Liabilities and Fund Equity – cont’d

Assigned fund balance represents amounts that are intended to be used for specific
purposes, but are neither restricted nor committed. Intent is expressed by the governing
body itself, or a subordinated high-level body or official who the governing body has
delegated the authority to assign amounts to be used for specific purposes. Assigned fund
balances include all remaining spendable amounts (except negative balances) that are
reported in governmental funds other than the general fund, that are neither restricted nor
committed, and amounts in the general fund that are intended to be used for specific
purposes in accordance with the provisions of the standard.

Unassigned fund balance is the residual classification for the general fund. It represents
the amounts that have not been assigned to other funds, and that have not been restricted,
committed, or assigned to specific purposes within the general fund.

F. Revenue and Expenditures

Local Revenues – Revenue from local sources is the money generated from within the
boundaries of the District and available to the District for its use.  The District is authorized
by state law to levy property taxes which consist of ad valorem taxes on real and personal
property within the District.  These property taxes are distributed to the District’s general,
building and sinking funds based on the levies approved for each fund.  The County
Assessor, upon receipt of the certification of tax levies from the county excise board, extends
the tax levies on the tax rolls for submission to the county treasurer prior to October 1.  The
county treasurer must commence tax collection within fifteen days of receipt of the tax rolls.
The first half of taxes is due prior to January 1.  The second half is due prior to April 1. If the
first payment is not made in a timely manner, the entire tax becomes due and payable on
January 2.  Second half taxes become delinquent on April 1, of  the year following   the year
of  assessment.   If   not paid by the following October 1, the property is offered for sale for
the amount of taxes due.  The owner has two years to redeem the property by paying the
taxes and penalty owed.  If at the end of two years the owner has not done so, the purchaser is
issued a deed to the property. Other local sources of revenues include tuition, fees, rentals,
disposals, commissions and reimbursements.

Intermediate Revenues - Revenue from intermediate sources is the amount of money from
funds collected by an intermediate administrative unit, or a political subdivision between the
District and the state, and distributed to Districts in amounts that differ in proportion to those
which are collected within such systems.



27

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-38, OSAGE COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES – cont’d

F. Revenue and Expenditures – cont’d

State Revenues – Revenues from state sources for current operations are primarily governed
by the state aid formula under the provisions of Article XVIII, Title 70, Oklahoma Statutes.
The State Board of Education administers the allocation of state aid funds to school districts
based on information accumulated from the Districts.

After review and verification of reports and supporting documentation, the State Department
of Education may adjust subsequent fiscal period allocations of money for prior year errors
disclosed by review.  Normally, such adjustments are treated as reductions from or additions
to the revenue of the year when the adjustment is made.

The District receives revenue from the state to administer certain categorical educational
programs. State Board of Education rules require that revenue earmarked for these programs
be expended only for the program  for which the money is provided and require that the
money not expended as of the close of the fiscal year be carried forward into the following
year to be expended for the same categorical programs.  The State Department of Education
requires that categorical educational program revenues be accounted for in the general fund.

Federal Revenues – Federal revenues consist of revenues from the federal government in the
form of operating grants or entitlements.  An operating grant is a contribution to be used for a
specific purpose, activity or facility. A grant may be received either directly from the federal
government or indirectly as a passthrough from another government, such as the state.
Entitlement is the amount of payment to which the District is entitled pursuant to an
allocation formula contained in applicable statutes. The majority of the federal revenues
received by the District are apportioned to the general fund. The District maintains a
separate child nutrition fund and the federal revenues received for the child nutrition
programs are apportioned there.

Non-Monetary Transactions – The District receives commodities form the U.S. Department
of Agriculture. The value of these commodities has been included in the Schedule of
Expenditures of Federal Awards; however, they have not been included in the financial
statements as either revenue or expense since they are not reported under the regulatory basis
of accounting.

Interest Earnings – Represent compensation for the use of financial sources over a period of
time.

Non-Revenue Receipts – Non-revenue receipts represent receipts deposited into a fund that
are not new revenues to the District, but the return of assets.



28

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-38, OSAGE COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES – cont’d

F. Revenue and Expenditures – cont’d

Instruction Expenditures – Instruction expenditures include the activities dealing directly
with the interaction between teachers and students. Teaching may be provided for students in
a school classroom, in another location, such as a home or hospital, and in other learning
situations, such as those involving cocurricular activities.  It may also be provided through
some other approved medium, such as television, radio, telephone and correspondence.
Included here are the activities of teacher assistants of any type (clerks, graders, teaching
machines, etc.) which assist in the instructional process. The activities of tutors, translators
and interpreters would be recorded here. Department chairpersons who teach for any portion
of time are included here.  Tuition/transfer fees paid to other LEAs would be included here.

Support Services Expenditures – Support services expenditures provide administrative,
technical (such as guidance and health) and logistical support to facilitate  and  enhance
instruction.  These  services exist as adjuncts for fulfilling the objectives of instruction,
community services and enterprise programs, rather than as entities within themselves.

Operation of Non-Instructional Services Expenditures – Activities concerned with providing
non-instructional services to students, staff or the community.

Facilities Acquisition and Construction Services Expenditures – Consists of activities
involved with the acquisition of land and buildings; remodeling buildings; the construction of
buildings and additions to buildings; initial installation or extension of service systems and
other built-in equipment; and improvements to sites.

Other Outlays Expenditures – A number of outlays of governmental funds are not properly
classified as expenditures, but still require budgetary or accounting control. These are
classified as Other Outlays. These include debt service payments (principal and interest).

Other Uses Expenditures – This includes scholarships provided by private gifts and
endowments; student aid and staff awards supported by outside revenue sources (i.e.,
foundations).  Also, expenditures for self-funded employee benefit programs administered
either by the District or a third party administrator.

Repayment Expenditures – Repayment expenditures represent checks/warrants issued to
outside agencies for refund or restricted revenue previously received for overpayment, non-
qualified expenditures and other refunds to be repaid from District funds.



29

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-38, OSAGE COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES – cont’d

F. Revenue and Expenditures – cont’d

Interfund Transactions – Quasi-external transactions are accounted for as revenues,
expenditures or expenses.  Transactions that constitute reimbursements to a fund or
expenditures/expenses initially made from it that are properly applicable to another fund, are
recorded as expenditures/expenses in the fund that is reimbursed.

All other interfund transactions, except quasi-external transactions and reimbursements, are
reported as transfers.  Nonrecurring or nonroutine permanent transfers of equity are reported
as residual equity transfers.  All other interfund transfers are reported as operating transfers.
There were no interfund transfers made during the 2017-18 fiscal year.

2. CASH AND INVESTMENTS

Custodial Credit Risk – Custodial credit risk is the risk that in the event of a bank failure, the
District’s deposits may not be returned to the District. The District’s cash deposits and
investments at June 30, 2018, were $2,218,888, at financial institutions, and were completely
insured or collateralized by federal depository insurance, direct obligations of the U.S.
Government, or securities held by the District or by its agent in the District’s name.

Investment Interest Rate Risk – Interest rate risk is the risk that changes in interest rates will
adversely affect the fair market value of an investment. Due to the required liquidity for those
investments, these funds have no defined maturity dates. The District does not have a formal
policy that limits investment maturities as a means of managing its exposure to fair value
losses from increasing interest rates.

Investment Credit risk – Credit risk is the risk that the issuer or other counterparty to an
investment will not fulfill its obligations. The District does not have a formal policy limiting
its investment choices, other than the limitation of state law as follows:

 Direct obligations of the U.S. Government, its agencies and instrument to which the full
faith and credit of the U.S. Government is pledged, or obligations to the payment of
which the full faith and credit of the State is pledged.

 Certificates of deposit or savings accounts that are either insured or secured with
acceptable collateral with in-state financial institutions, and fully insured certificates of
deposit or savings accounts in out-of-state financial institutions.

 With certain limitation, negotiable certificates of deposit, prime bankers acceptances,
prime commercial paper and repurchase agreements with certain limitations.



30

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-38, OSAGE COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

2.   CASH AND INVESTMENTS – cont’d

 County, municipal or school district tax supported debt obligations, bond or revenue
anticipation notes, money judgments, or bond or revenue anticipation  notes of public
trusts whose beneficiary is a county, municipality or school district.

 Notes or bonds secured by mortgage or trust deed insured by the Federal Housing
Administrator and debentures issued by the Federal Housing Administrator, and in
obligations of the National Mortgage Association.

 Money market funds regulated by the SEC and in which investments consist of the
investments mentioned in the previous bullet items.

Concentration of Investment Credit Risk – The District places no limit on the amount it may
invest in any one issuer.

3. INTERFUND RECEIVABLES AND PAYABLES

There were no interfund receivables or payables at June 30, 2018.

4. GENERAL LONG-TERM DEBT

State statutes prohibit the District from becoming indebted in an amount exceeding the
revenue to be received for any fiscal year without approval by the District’s voters.  Bond
issues have been approved by the voters  and  issued by the District for various capital
improvements.  These bonds are required to be fully paid serially within 25 years of the date
of issue.

General long-term debt of the District consists of building bonds payable. Debt service
requirements for bonds and judgments are paid solely from the fund balance and the future
revenues of the debt service fund.

The following is a summary of the long-term debt transactions of the District for the year
ended June 30, 2018:

Bonds
Payable

Balance, July 1, 2017 1,775,000$
Additions 240,000
Retirements (115,000)

Balance, June 30, 2018 1,900,000$



31

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-38, OSAGE COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

4. GENERAL LONG-TERM DEBT – cont’d

A brief description of the outstanding long-term debt at June 30, 2018, is set forth below:

Amount
Outstanding

General Obligation Bonds:

Building Bonds, Series 2013, original issue
$100,000, interest rate of 1.625%, due in
annual installments of $25,000, final payment
due 7-01-18 $   25,000

Building Bonds, Series 2014, original issue
$700,000, interest rate of 1.0% to 1.50%, due in
annual installments of $175,000, final payment
of $125,000 due 7-01-19 350,000

Building Bonds, Series 2015, original issue
$290,000, interest rate of 1.95% to 3.05%, due in
annual installments of $70,000, final payment
of $80,000 due 7-01-20 220,000

Building Bonds, Series 2016, original issue
$480,000, interest rate of 1.65% to 1.75%, due in
annual installments of $120,000, final payment
of $120,000 due 7-01-21 480,000

Building Bonds, Series 2016, original issue
$700,000, interest rate of 1.5% to 2.25%, due in
annual installments of $115,000, final payment
$125,000 due 6-1-23 585,000

Building Bonds, Series 2017, original issue
$240,000, interest rate of 1.5% to 3.0%, due in
annual installments of $60,000, final payment
due 7-1-22 240,000

Total $ 1,900,000



32

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-38, OSAGE COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

4.   GENERAL LONG-TERM DEBT – cont’d

The annual debt service requirements for the retirement of principal and interest are   as
follows:

Year Ending
June 30, Principal Interest Total

2019 505,000$ 46,721 551,721
2020 540,000 26,080 566,080
2021 375,000 16,850 391,850
2022 295,000 7,162 302,162
2023 185,000 7,200 192,200

Total 1,900,000$ 104,013 2,004,013

Interest paid on general long-term debt during the 2017-18 fiscal year totaled $13,450.

5.   EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEM

Description of Plan

The District participates in the state-administered Oklahoma Teachers’ Retirement System,
which is a cost sharing, multiple-employer defined benefit public employee retirement
system  (PERS), which  is administered  by the Board  of  Trustees  of  the Oklahoma
Teachers’ Retirement System (the “System”).  The System provides retirement and disability
benefits, annual cost-of-living adjustments, and death benefits to plan members  and
beneficiaries.   Title  70  Section  17  of the Oklahoma Statutes establishes benefit provisions
and may be amended only through legislative action.  The Oklahoma Teachers’ Retirement
System issues a publicly available financial report that includes financial statements and
required supplementary information for the System.  That report may be obtained by writing
to the Oklahoma Teachers’ Retirement System, P.O. Box 53624, Oklahoma City, OK 73152,
or by calling 405-521-2387.

Basis of Accounting

The System’s financial statements are prepared using the cash basis of accounting, except for
accruals of interest income.  Plan member contributions are recognized in the period in which
the contributions are made.  Benefits and refunds are recognized when paid.  The pension
benefit obligation is a standardized disclosure measure of the present value of pension
benefits.  This pension valuation method reflects the present value of estimated pension
benefits that will be paid in future years as a result of  employee  services  performed  to  date
and is adjusted for the  effect of projected salary increases.  There are no actuarial valuations



33

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-38, OSAGE COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

5.   EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEM – cont’d

Basis of Accounting – cont’d

performed on individual school districts.  The System has an under-funded pension benefit
obligation as determined as part of the latest actuarial valuation.

Funding Policy

The District, the State of Oklahoma, and the participating employee make contributions.  The
contribution rates for the District and its employees are established by and may be amended
by Oklahoma Statutes.  The rates are not actuarially determined.  The rates are applied to the
employee’s earnings plus employer-paid fringe benefits.  The required contribution for the
participating members is 7.0% of compensation.  Contributions received by the System from
the State of Oklahoma are used to offset required employer contributions by the local school
district.  For the 2017-18 fiscal year, the District contributed 9.5% and the State of Oklahoma
contributed the remaining amount during the year.  The District is allowed by Oklahoma
Teachers’ Retirement System to make the required contributions on behalf of the
participating members.  In addition, if a member’s salary is paid in part by federal or private
funds, the contribution on that portion of the salary paid by those funds must be matched by
the District at 7.80%.

Annual Pension Cost

The District’s total contributions for 2018, 2017, and 2016 were $399,943, $384,814, and
$407,537, respectively. Ten-year historical trend information is presented in the Teacher’s
Retirement System of Oklahoma Annual Report for the year ended June 30, 2018. This
information is useful in assessing the pension plan’s accumulation of sufficient assets to pay
pension benefits as they become due.  Please visit www.ok.gov/TRS for all plan information.

GASB Statement 68 became effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2014, and
significantly changes pension accounting and financial reporting for governmental employers
who participate in a pension plan, such as the System, and who prepare published financial
statements on an accrual basis using Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Since the
District does not prepare and present their financial statements on an accrual basis, the net
pension amount is not required to be presented on the audited financial statements. The
amount of calculated pension liability for the District at June 30, 2017 (the latest information
available) was $4,547,201.



34

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-38, OSAGE COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

6.  RISK MANAGEMENT

The District is exposed to various risks of loss related to torts; theft of, damage to and
destruction of assets; errors and omissions; injuries to employees; or acts of God.  The
District purchases commercial insurance to cover these risks, including general and auto
liability, property damage, and public officials liability.  Settled claims resulting from risks
have not exceeded the commercial insurance coverage in any of the past three fiscal years.

The School participates in a risk pool for Workers’ Compensation coverage in which there is
a transfer or pooling of risks among the participants of that pool.  In accordance with GASB
No. 10, the School reports the required contribution to the pool, net of refunds, as insurance
expense. The risk pool is the Oklahoma School Assurance Group (OSAG), an organization
formed for the purpose of providing workers’ compensation coverage to participating schools
in the State of Oklahoma. In that capacity, OSAG is responsible for providing loss control
services and certain fiscal activities, including obtaining contract arrangements for the
underwriting, excess insurance agreements, claims processing, and legal defense for any and
all claims submitted to it during the plan year.  As a member of OSAG, the District is
required to pay fees set by OSAG according to an established payment schedule.  A portion
of the fees paid by the District goes into a loss fund for the District.  The fee for the loss fund
is calculated by projecting losses based on the school’s losses for the last five years.  OSAG
provides coverage in excess of the Loss Fund so the District’s liability for claim loss is
limited to the balance of the loss fund.  If the District does not use its loss fund in three years,
it is returned to the District with no interest.

The District is also a member of the Oklahoma Public Schools Unemployment Compensation
Program.  In this program the District is required to contribute 1.6% of its taxable payroll for
unemployment insurance.  The funds for each District are kept separate and Districts can
contribute more than 1.6% of their payroll if they elect to.  The money contributed by each
District earns interest and is fully insured.  If the District has claims in excess of the amount
in its account, it will be liable for the excess.

7. CONTINGENCIES

Federal Grants

Amounts received or receivable from grant agencies are subject to audit and adjustment by
grantor agencies.  Any disallowed claims, including amounts already collected, may
constitute a liability of the applicable funds.  The amounts, if any, of expenditures which may
be disallowed by the grantor cannot be determined at this time, although the District expects
such amounts, if any, to be immaterial.



35

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-38, OSAGE COUNTY
NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

7. CONTINGENCIES – cont’d

Schedule of Expenditure of Federal Awards

The schedule shows the federal awards received and expended by the District during the
2017-18 fiscal year. The revised Uniform Guidance Audits of States, Local Governments and
Non-Profit Organizations, established uniform audit requirements for nonfederal entities
which expended more than $750,000 in federal awards.

Litigation

School officials are not aware of any pending or threatened litigation, claims or assessments
or unasserted claims or assessments against the District.

8. FINANCING AGREEMENT

On June 1, 2011, the District entered into a $2,371,000 lease-purchase financing agreement
with Standard Capital Finance, LLC to provide funds for the constructing, equipping,
repairing and remodeling of school buildings, acquiring furniture, fixtures and equipment and
acquiring and improving school sites for the benefit of Hominy School District. Under this
agreement the District, as lessor, entered into a ground lease agreement, for certain district
property, with Standard Capital Finance, LLC. In addition, the District entered into a
sublease (lease/purchase agreement), as lessee, with Standard Capital Finance, LLC.  The
sublease calls for eight (8) annual acquisition payments starting August 15, 2012. A Trust
Agreement, also dated June 1, 2011, was entered between the lessee, the lessor, and Arvest
Trust Company, N.A., wherein Arvest Trust Company, N.A. agrees to hold and administer
various funds and accounts used in conjunction with this lease-purchase financing. The
acquisition payments will be made out of bond funds, pursuant to the issuance of series bonds
passed by electors of the District.  Hominy Public Schools will gain ownership to the capital
improvements incrementally as each payment is made. Future acquisition payments are as
follows.

Year Payments

2019 660,000$
2020 420,000

             Total 1,080,000$
             Interest (63,814)
             Net 1,016,186$



BOND (31) BOND (32)
FUND FUND TOTAL

ASSETS

Cash 667$ 1,671 2,338

LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCE

Liabilities:
   Warrants payable $                             0 964 964

Fund Balance:
   Restricted 667 707 1,374

Total Liabilities and Fund Balance 667$ 1,671 2,338

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-38, OSAGE COUNTY
COMBINING STATEMENT OF ASSETS, LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCE -

ALL CAPITAL PROJECTS FUNDS - REGULATORY BASIS
JUNE 30, 2018

36



BOND (31) BOND (32)
FUND FUND TOTAL

Revenues Collected:
   Interest earnings $                       0 262 262

Expenditures:
   Facilities acquisition & construction services 240,000 242,404 482,404

Excess of revenues collected over
   (under) expenditures before other
   financing sources (uses) (240,000) (242,142) (482,142)

Other financing sources (uses):
   Bond proceeds 240,000 0 240,000

Excess of revenues collected over
   (under) expenditures 0 (242,142) (242,142)

Cash fund balances, beginning of year 667 242,849 243,516

Cash fund balances, end of year 667$ 707 1,374

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-38, OSAGE COUNTY
COMBINING STATEMENT OF REVENUES COLLECTED, EXPENDITURES AND CHANGES

IN CASH FUND BALANCES - ALL CAPITAL PROJECTS FUNDS - REGULATORY BASIS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

37



BALANCE NET BALANCE
7-01-17 ADDITIONS TRANSFERS DEDUCTIONS 6-30-18

ASSETS

Cash 233,156$ 209,900 181,232 261,824
Investments 32,225 506 32,731

Total Assets 265,381$ 210,406 0 181,232 294,555

LIABILITIES

Funds held for school organizations:
Athletics 119,584$ 55,976 52,780 122,780
General activity 1,570 1,053 1,424 2,865 1,182
H.S. activity 4,874 1,578 2,261 4,191
Title VII activity 362 0 0 362
Band 719 6,722 6,081 1,360
Elementary activity 1,338 16,797 13,850 4,285
FCCLA 549 841 1,536 1,843 1,083
HS student council 873 0 0 873
Elementary library 2,821 6,677 5,880 3,618
Choir 900 0 0 900
HS baseball 5,083 0 (12) 264 4,807
HS Cheerleaders 6,164 14,373 (299) 13,626 6,612
National honor society 377 0 0 377
TSA 466 1,459 924 1,001
Basketball concession 14,124 4,739 149 7,910 11,102
H.S. library 310 30 0 340
Special olympics 4,948 1,609 1,029 5,528
Class of 2017 1,415 0 (1,415) 0 0
Spanish club 183 0 180 3
Class of 2020 12,924 8,312 5,043 16,193
EC activity 1,755 5,482 4,206 3,031
Softball 6,127 5,904 2,505 9,526
MS student council 869 1,386 1,234 1,021
MS cheerleaders 860 10,467 10 8,940 2,397
Class of 2019 11,513 6,742 30 4,656 13,629
Class of 2018 10,333 32 8,546 1,819
Buck boosters 322 0 0 322
Music parents 4,738 14,305 8,260 10,783
MS activity 2,260 552 930 1,882
Yearbook 3,836 7,638 6,275 5,199
Scholarship fund 0 5,000 0 5,000
Certificate of deposit 34,433 405 (1,423) 784 32,631
Class of 2021 496 19,268 12,720 7,044
Purple power PTO 1,428 0 218 1,210
Quarterback club 6,827 13,059 7,422 12,464

Total Liabilities 265,381$ 210,406 0 181,232 294,555

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-38, OSAGE COUNTY
COMBINING STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN ASSETS AND LIABILITIES

 ALL  AGENCY FUNDS - REGULATORY BASIS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

38



Federal Grantor / Pass Through Federal CFDA Federal Grantor's/ Program or Balance at Revenue Total Balance at
Grantor / Program Title Number Pass-through Grantor's No. Award Amount 7/1/2017 Collected Expenditures 6/30/2018

U.S. Department of Education
Direct Programs:
    Indian Education 84.060 S060A170613 58,369$ 5,093 58,369 53,276
    Indian Education 2016-17 - Note 84.060 S060A160613 47,930 47,930
    Impact Aid Opertions 84.041 S041B-2017-4001 137,272 137,272 137,272
    Impact Aid Operations, Disabled 84.041 S041B-2017-4001 2,825 2,825 2,825
        Sub Total 198,466 47,930 193,120 198,466 53,276

Passed Through State Department of Education:
   *Title I Basic Program 84.010 S010A170036 157,705 14,315 140,891 126,576
    Title I, Basic Program 2016-17 - Note 84.010 153,320 153,320
   *Title I, School Improvement 84.010 S010A170036 45,018 7,454 31,157 23,703
    Title I, School Improvement 2016-17 - Note 84.010 13,487 13,487
    Title II, Part A 84.367 S367A170035 15,942 9,005 15,016 6,011
    Title II, Part A 2016-17 - Note 84.367 23,424 23,424
    Title V, Part B 84.358B 10,169 1,316 9,782
    IDEA-B flowthrough 84.027 H027A170051 116,202 12,241 116,202 103,961
    IDEA-B flowthrough 2016-17 - Note 84.027 103,538 103,538
    IDEA-B preschool 84.173 H173A170084 4,533 4,533 4,533
    IDEA-B preschool 2016-17 - Note 84.173 4,561 4,561
    21st Century 84.287 S287C140036 137,478 63,806 135,721 71,915
    21st Century 2016-17 - Note 84.287 104,922 104,922
        Sub Total 487,047 403,252 511,389 453,302 336,699

Passed Through State Department of Vocational Technical Education:
    Carl Perkins grant 84.048 28,843 0 28,843 28,843 0

  *Child Nutrition Programs:
      School breakfast program 10.553 54,376 51,248
      National school lunch program 10.555 178,834 133,767
      Summer food program 10.559 2,984 6,359
      Farm bill grant 10.559 5,000
         Sub Total 236,194 196,374

Passed Through Department of Human Services
   *Non-cash assistance - commodities - Note 3
     National school lunch program 10.555 17,627 17,627

Other Federal Assistance:
    Flood control 12.112 360 0 360 360 0

Total Federal Assistance 714,716$ 451,182 987,533 894,972 389,975

Note - These amounts represent reimbursements for prior year expenditures which were not received until the current fiscal year.

Note 1 - Basis of Presentation - The accompanying schedule of expenditures of federal awards includes the federal activity of the District  for the year ended June 30, 2018.  This
information is presented in accordance with the requirements of Title 2 U.S. Code of Federal Regulations Part 200, Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and
Audit Requirements for Federal Awards (Uniform Guidance) . Because the schedule presents only a selected portiion of the operations of the District, it is not intended and does
not present the financial position, changes in net assets, or cash flows of the District.

Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies - Expenditiures reported on this schedule are reported on the regulatory basis of accounting consistent with the preparation of
the combined financial statements except as noted in Note 3. Expenditures are recognized following the cost principles contained in the Uniform Guidance, wherein certain types
of expenditures are not allowable or are limited as to reimbursement.  The District has elected not to use the 10 percent de minimus indirect cost rate allowed under the Uniform Guidance.

Note 3 - Non-Monetary Assistance - Commodities received by the District in the amount of  $17,627  were of a non-monetary nature and therefore the total revenue does not
agree with the financial statements

* Major programs

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-38, OSAGE COUNTY
SCHEDULE OF EXPENDITURES OF FEDERAL AWARDS - REGULATORY BASIS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

Passed Through State Department of Education

39



POSITION BOND COVERAGE
BONDING COMPANY COVERED NUMBER AMOUNT EFFECTIVE DATES

Western Surety Co Encumbrance, Minutes,
    and Payroll Clerk 68750243 100,000$ 7/1/17-7/1/18
Activity Fund, Lunchroom
    Custodian and School Treasurer 68750243 100,000 7/1/17-7/1/18

Superintendent 68750243 100,000 7/1/17-7/1/18
Deputy Treasurer 68750243 100,000 7/1/17-7/1/18

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-38, OSAGE COUNTY
STATEMENT OF STATUTORY, FIDELITY AND HONESTY BONDS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2018

40




	1 Cover sheets.pdf
	2 -  Independent Auditor's Report-2016.pdf
	2a  Report on Internal control and compliance  in accordance with GAS-2016.pdf
	2b - Report on Compliance for each Major prog and IC by uniform guidance 2016.pdf
	3 - Disposition - prior year reportable conditions.pdf
	3a - Schedule of Audit results, findings and questioned costs.pdf
	4- Combined Statement of Assets, Liab....pdf
	4a -  Combined Statement of revenues, expend...govt' fund types.pdf
	4b -  Budget to Actual General.pdf
	4c - Budget to Actual Special.pdf
	4d - Budget to Actual Debt Service.pdf
	5 - Notes To Combine Financial Statements.pdf
	6b - All capital projects funds - balance sheet.pdf
	6c - All capital projects funds - income statements.pdf
	6d -  Agency fund - balance sheet.pdf
	7 - Schedule of Expenditures of Federal Awards.pdf
	7a - Surety bond coverage schedule.pdf
	8a - Insur and Ltr.pdf

